packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-wt-from-plan-file.md, before:

---
description: Create worktree from existing plan file on disk
---

# /erk:create-wt-from-plan-file

Create an erk worktree from an existing plan file on disk.

## Usage

```bash
/erk:create-wt-from-plan-file
```

## What This Command Does

Delegates the complete worktree creation workflow to the `planned-wt-creator` agent, which handles:

1. Auto-detect most recent `*-plan.md` file at repository root
2. Validate plan file (exists, readable, not empty)
3. Run `erk create --from-plan <file>` with JSON output
4. Display plan location and next steps

## Prerequisites

- At least one `*-plan.md` file at repository root
- Current working directory in a git repository
- Typically run after `/erk:save-context-enriched-plan`

## Implementation

When this command is invoked, delegate to the planned-wt-creator agent:

```
Task(
    subagent_type="planned-wt-creator",
    description="Create worktree from plan",
    prompt="Execute the complete planned worktree creation workflow"
)
```

The agent handles all workflow orchestration, error handling, and result reporting.

Commit message:

Implement native GitHub issue support for erk worktree creation
GitHub issues are now the canonical source for all erk plans, enabling full traceability and integration with GitHub's PR workflow. This change makes the `/erk:create-wt-from-plan-file` workflow automatically create a GitHub issue with the `erk-plan` label before creating the worktree.

- `.claude/agents/erk/planned-wt-creator.md` - Updated agent spec to orchestrate GitHub issue creation workflow
- `docs/agent/planning-workflow.md` - Documented GitHub-first workflow, alternative approaches, and troubleshooting
- `packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-wt-from-plan-file.md` - Updated command documentation
- `src/erk/cli/commands/create.py` - Added GitHub integration with issue parsing, validation, and metadata storage
- `tests/integration/test_plan_issue_creation.py` - Updated test expectations for raw markdown behavior

- **GitHub as canonical source**: Plans now originate from GitHub issues with `erk-plan` label
- **Issue parsing**: New `parse_issue_number()` handles both plain numbers and GitHub URLs
- **Issue validation**: New `validate_erk_plan_label()` ensures issues have required label
- **Worktree metadata**: `.impl/issue.json` stores issue number, URL, and title for full traceability
- **CLI support**: New `--from-issue <number>` flag enables worktree creation directly from existing issues
- **Workflow orchestration**: Agent now handles issue creation, parsing, and worktree linking

- The `--from-issue` flag is mutually exclusive with `--plan`, `--from-branch`, and `--from-current-branch`
- Issue must have `erk-plan` label; missing label triggers helpful error with remediation steps
- `.impl/issue.json` metadata enables PR linking and issue auto-close on merge

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-wt-from-plan-file.md, after:

---
description: Create worktree from existing plan file on disk
---

# /erk:create-wt-from-plan-file

Create an erk worktree from an existing plan file on disk.

## Usage

```bash
/erk:create-wt-from-plan-file
```

## What This Command Does

Delegates the complete worktree creation workflow to the `planned-wt-creator` agent, which handles:

1. Auto-detect most recent `*-plan.md` file at repository root
2. **Create GitHub issue from plan** (new step)
3. **Extract issue number from result** (new step)
4. **Create worktree via `erk create --from-issue <number>`** (changed from `--from-plan`)
5. Display next steps with issue link

**Note:** This workflow now ALWAYS creates a GitHub issue first. The issue becomes the single source of truth for the plan, enabling full traceability and integration with GitHub's PR workflow.

## Prerequisites

- At least one `*-plan.md` file at repository root
- Current working directory in a git repository
- Typically run after `/erk:save-context-enriched-plan`

## Implementation

When this command is invoked, delegate to the planned-wt-creator agent:

```
Task(
    subagent_type="planned-wt-creator",
    description="Create worktree from plan",
    prompt="Execute the complete planned worktree creation workflow"
)
```

The agent handles all workflow orchestration, error handling, and result reporting.
