packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-enhanced-plan.md, before:

---
description: Extract plan from conversation and enhance using session log discoveries
---

# /erk:create-enhanced-plan

Extracts an implementation plan from the conversation and enhances it with discoveries mined from Claude Code session logs. This preserves all computational work from the planning session without triggering any implementation behavior.

## Usage

```bash
/erk:create-enhanced-plan
```

## Purpose

This command solves the critical problem where planning sessions lose valuable discoveries when plans are saved. By mining session logs, we preserve:

- Failed attempts and what didn't work
- API quirks and undocumented behaviors
- Architectural insights about WHY decisions were made
- Performance bottlenecks discovered
- Complex reasoning paths explored

## How It Works

1. **Locates session logs** for the current Claude Code project
2. **Mines discoveries** from tool invocations and assistant reasoning
3. **Extracts the plan** from the conversation
4. **Enhances the plan** with mined context
5. **Saves enhanced plan** to repository root

---

## Agent Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:create-enhanced-plan` command. Follow these steps carefully using ONLY the allowed tools.

### CRITICAL: Tool Restrictions

**ALLOWED TOOLS:**

- `Read` - For reading session logs and files
- `Write` - ONLY for writing to repository root
- `Bash` - ONLY for log operations in `~/.claude/projects/`
- `AskUserQuestion` - For clarifications

**FORBIDDEN TOOLS:**

- `Edit` - Do NOT modify any existing files
- `Glob` - Do NOT search the codebase
- `Grep` - Do NOT search the codebase
- `Task` - Do NOT launch subagents
- Any tool not explicitly listed as allowed

**CRITICAL:** If you use any forbidden tool, STOP immediately.

### Step 1: Extract Session ID and Locate Session Logs

**Step 1a: Extract Session ID from Context**

Search the conversation for the session ID injected by the session-id-injector-hook:

1. Look for system-reminder or reminder messages containing "SESSION_CONTEXT:"
2. Extract the session ID from format: `SESSION_CONTEXT: session_id={uuid}`
3. Store the session ID for use in locating log files

Example pattern to match:

```
SESSION_CONTEXT: session_id=abc-123-def-456
```

If session ID not found in context:

```
⚠️ Warning: Session ID not found in conversation context

The session-id-injector-hook may not be installed or running.
Falling back to manual log discovery (less reliable).
```

**Step 1b: Locate Session Logs**

Using the extracted session ID, find the Claude Code session logs:

```bash
# Get current directory to determine project
pwd

# List available projects to find project hash
ls ~/.claude/projects/

# Match current working directory against project directories
# to identify the correct project hash

# Once project hash identified, locate session log using session ID
# Log file format: ~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/<session-id>.jsonl
```

Look for:

- Main session log: `~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/<session-id>.jsonl`
- Agent logs: `~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/agent-*.jsonl` (from same session)

If logs not found or inaccessible:

```
⚠️ Warning: Session logs not accessible

Falling back to conversation-only extraction.
This will miss discoveries made during planning research.
```

### Step 2: Extract Plan from Conversation

Search the conversation for the implementation plan:

1. Look for `ExitPlanMode` tool results containing the plan
2. Look for sections like "## Implementation Plan" or "### Implementation Steps"
3. Look for numbered lists of implementation tasks

Extract:

- Objective/goal
- Implementation steps/phases
- Success criteria
- Testing requirements

If no plan found:

```
❌ Error: No implementation plan found in conversation

Please create a plan first:
1. Enter Plan mode
2. Create your implementation plan
3. Exit Plan mode
4. Then run /erk:create-enhanced-plan
```

### Step 3: Preprocess and Mine Session Logs

**Step 3a: Preprocess JSONL logs to XML**

Use the preprocessing CLI command to compress logs before mining. **IMPORTANT:** Pass the session ID extracted in Step 1a to filter entries:

```bash
# Preprocess main session log with session ID filtering (default: all optimizations enabled)
# (replace with actual paths from Step 1b and session ID from Step 1a)
dot-agent run erk preprocess-session --session-id <session-id> ~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/<session-id>.jsonl

# For raw output without optimizations (rare cases only):
dot-agent run erk preprocess-session --session-id <session-id> --no-filtering ~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/<session-id>.jsonl
```

This outputs a temp file path like: `/tmp/session-<session-id>-compressed.xml`

**Filtering Optimizations (Enabled by Default):**

The preprocessing command now applies multiple optimization layers by default for 55-65% token reduction:

1. **Session ID filtering** - Only includes entries from current session (prevents cross-contamination)
2. **Empty session filtering** - Skips sessions with <3 entries or no meaningful content
3. **Warmup session filtering** - Skips boilerplate "warmup" acknowledgments
4. **Documentation deduplication** - Replaces repeated command docs with hash markers
5. **Parameter truncation** - Shortens verbose tool parameters to 200 chars (preserves file path structure)
6. **Tool result pruning** - Keeps first 30 lines + error lines (prevents 1000+ line results)
7. **Log discovery filtering** - Removes pwd, ls commands used for log discovery mechanics

Use `--no-filtering` flag to disable all optimizations and get raw output (needed only in rare debugging cases).

**Expected Token Reduction:**

- With filtering (default): **55-65%** compression (1MB → 350-450KB typical)
- Session ID filtering alone: ~95% (filters other conversations)
- Combined: ~96-97% total reduction from raw JSONL

**Benefits:**

- Massive token reduction while preserving all semantic value
- Tool results pruned but errors preserved
- File paths truncated but remain identifiable
- Coarse-grained XML structure easy to parse

**Step 3b: Mine discoveries from compressed XML**

Read the compressed XML file. The format uses coarse-grained tags:

```xml
<session>
  <meta branch="..." />
  <user>User message text</user>
  <assistant>Assistant reasoning</assistant>
  <tool_use name="ToolName" id="toolu_123">
    <param name="param1">value</param>
  </tool_use>
  <tool_result tool="toolu_123">
    Full tool result content preserved verbatim...
  </tool_result>
</session>
```

Extract discoveries using simple regex patterns:

```python
# Extract tool uses
tool_uses = re.findall(r'<tool_use name="([^"]+)" id="([^"]+)">(.*?)</tool_use>', xml, re.DOTALL)

# Extract tool results (preserve full verbosity)
tool_results = re.findall(r'<tool_result tool="([^"]+)">(.*?)</tool_result>', xml, re.DOTALL)

# Extract user messages
user_messages = re.findall(r'<user>(.*?)</user>', xml, re.DOTALL)

# Extract assistant reasoning
assistant_text = re.findall(r'<assistant>(.*?)</assistant>', xml, re.DOTALL)
```

#### What to Extract

From `tool_use` entries:

- Tool name and parameters
- What was being searched for
- File paths explored
- Commands executed

From `tool_result` entries:

- Errors encountered
- File contents discovered (key snippets only)
- Command outputs
- Search results

From assistant text blocks:

- Reasoning about approaches
- Trade-off analysis
- Rejection explanations
- Performance observations

#### Categories to Populate

**Discovery Journey:**

- Search patterns used
- Files examined
- Exploration sequence

**Failed Attempts:**

- Errors encountered
- Approaches that didn't work
- Rejected solutions

**API/Tool Quirks:**

- Undocumented behaviors
- Edge cases discovered
- Workarounds needed

**Architectural Insights:**

- WHY decisions were made
- Design patterns found
- Codebase conventions

**Performance Issues:**

- Slow operations
- Timeout risks
- Memory concerns

**Domain Knowledge:**

- Business rules discovered
- Non-obvious requirements
- Hidden constraints

**Technical Context:**

- Function signatures
- Parameter requirements
- Return value formats

**Testing Insights:**

- Test patterns found
- Coverage gaps
- Testing challenges

### Step 4: Create Enhanced Plan Structure

Build the enhanced plan with this structure:

```markdown
---
enriched_by_create_enhanced_plan: true
session_id: <session-id-from-step-1a>
discovery_count: <number>
timestamp: <ISO-8601>
---

# [Plan Title] - Enhanced Implementation Guide

## Executive Summary

[1-2 paragraphs summarizing the goal and approach]

## Critical Context from Planning

### What We Learned

#### [Category 1 - e.g., API Discoveries]

- [Key insight 1]
- [Key insight 2]

#### [Category 2 - e.g., Architecture]

- [Key insight 1]
- [Key insight 2]

### What Didn't Work

#### Failed Approaches Discovered

- **[Approach 1]**: [Why it failed]
- **[Approach 2]**: [Why it failed]

### Raw Discoveries Log

[Chronological list of significant discoveries]

- Discovered: [Finding]
- Confirmed: [Validation]
- Learned: [Insight]
- Found: [Pattern]

## Implementation Plan

### Objective

[Original objective from plan]

### Implementation Steps

#### Phase 1: [Name]

1. **[Step name]**
   [CRITICAL: Warning if applicable]
   - Success: [Criteria]
   - On failure: [Recovery]

   Related Context:
   - [Link to relevant discovery]
   - [Why this approach was chosen]

2. **[Step name]**
   [Details]

   Related Context:
   - [Link to relevant discovery]

[Continue for all phases...]

### Testing

[Testing requirements from original plan plus insights from logs]

## Progress Tracking

**Current Status:** Planning complete, ready for implementation

**Last Updated:** [Date]

### Implementation Progress

- [ ] Step 1: [Name from plan]
- [ ] Step 2: [Name from plan]
      [Continue for all steps...]

### Overall Progress

**Steps Completed:** 0 / [Total]

## Appendices

### A. Commands Run During Planning

[List of significant commands from logs]

### B. Code Examined

[List of files/functions examined with brief notes]

### C. Error Scenarios

[Errors encountered and how to handle them]

### D. Decision Log

[Key decisions made during planning and why]

### E. Key Discoveries Not to Lose

[Critical insights that must not be forgotten]
```

### Step 5: Apply Context Linking

Link discoveries to implementation steps:

1. **Inline warnings** for critical issues:

   ```
   [CRITICAL: Check exists() before resolve() - causes error otherwise]
   ```

2. **Related Context subsections** after each step:

   ```
   Related Context:
   - Session logs stored in JSONL format, one JSON per line
   - Project hash derived from workspace path
   - Must parse incrementally to avoid memory issues
   ```

3. **Cross-references** to appendices:
   ```
   (See Appendix A for full command list)
   ```

### Step 6: Save Enhanced Plan

Generate filename and save to repository root:

```python
# Determine repo root
repo_root = subprocess.run(
    ["git", "rev-parse", "--show-toplevel"],
    capture_output=True,
    text=True,
    check=True
).stdout.strip()

# Generate filename (max 30 chars base for worktree compatibility)
# Example: "session-log-mining-enhanced-plan.md"
filename = f"{descriptive_name}-enhanced-plan.md"

# Save directly to repo root (NOT to .plan/ folder)
plan_path = Path(repo_root) / filename

# Write enhanced plan
plan_path.write_text(enhanced_plan_content, encoding="utf-8")
```

Output:

```
✅ Enhanced plan saved to: [filename]

Summary:
- Discoveries mined: [count]
- Implementation steps: [count]
- Context links added: [count]

Next steps:
1. Review the enhanced plan
2. Create worktree: /erk:create-planned-wt [plan-file]
3. Switch to worktree and implement
```

### Step 7: Handle Errors

**No logs found:**

- Continue with conversation-only extraction
- Warn about missing discoveries

**Large logs (>25000 tokens):**

- Process incrementally line by line
- Extract key snippets only, not full contents

**Corrupted log entries:**

- Skip malformed JSON lines
- Continue with remaining entries

**File already exists:**

```
File [name] already exists in repository root.

Options:
1. Use different name
2. Overwrite existing
3. Cancel operation
```

## Example Mining Results

When mining logs, you might find:

```json
// Tool use that failed
{
  "type": "tool_use",
  "name": "Read",
  "input": {"file_path": "/nonexistent/path"}
}

// Result showing error
{
  "type": "tool_result",
  "error": "FileNotFoundError"
}

// Assistant reasoning about failure
{
  "type": "text",
  "text": "The file doesn't exist at that path. Let me search for it..."
}
```

This becomes:

```markdown
### Failed Attempts

- **Reading config at /nonexistent/path**: File not found, searched elsewhere
```

## Important Notes

- **No implementation**: This command ONLY reads and writes plans
- **Log mining focus**: Prioritize discoveries from logs over conversation
- **Key snippets only**: Don't include full file contents from logs
- **Tool boundaries**: Strictly enforce allowed/forbidden tools
- **Progressive disclosure**: Summary → Details → Raw data

Commit message:

Add --stdout flag to erk preprocess-session command for direct XML output
Implements a --stdout flag that routes XML output directly to stdout instead of temp files, eliminating permission prompts during /erk:create-enhanced-plan execution and making output immediately available for parsing.

## Files Changed

### Modified (3 files)

- packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-enhanced-plan.md
- packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/kit_cli_commands/erk/preprocess_session.py
- packages/dot-agent-kit/tests/unit/kits/erk/test_preprocess_session.py

## Key Changes

- Added --stdout flag to preprocess-session command routing XML to stdout with stats/diagnostics to stderr
- Backward-compatible implementation with default behavior (no flag) continuing to write temp files
- Documentation updates clarifying usage examples for both --stdout and legacy temp file modes
- Test coverage added validating stdout XML output, stderr stats routing, and backward compatibility

## Implementation Details

Stats messages are explicitly routed to stderr when --stdout is enabled to prevent XML corruption in stdout. The flag is optional defaulting to false, maintaining 100% backward compatibility.

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-enhanced-plan.md, after:

---
description: Extract plan from conversation and enhance using session log discoveries
---

# /erk:create-enhanced-plan

Extracts an implementation plan from the conversation and enhances it with discoveries mined from Claude Code session logs. This preserves all computational work from the planning session without triggering any implementation behavior.

## Usage

```bash
/erk:create-enhanced-plan
```

## Purpose

This command solves the critical problem where planning sessions lose valuable discoveries when plans are saved. By mining session logs, we preserve:

- Failed attempts and what didn't work
- API quirks and undocumented behaviors
- Architectural insights about WHY decisions were made
- Performance bottlenecks discovered
- Complex reasoning paths explored

## How It Works

1. **Locates session logs** for the current Claude Code project
2. **Mines discoveries** from tool invocations and assistant reasoning
3. **Extracts the plan** from the conversation
4. **Enhances the plan** with mined context
5. **Saves enhanced plan** to repository root

---

## Agent Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:create-enhanced-plan` command. Follow these steps carefully using ONLY the allowed tools.

### CRITICAL: Tool Restrictions

**ALLOWED TOOLS:**

- `Read` - For reading session logs and files
- `Write` - ONLY for writing to repository root
- `Bash` - ONLY for log operations in `~/.claude/projects/`
- `AskUserQuestion` - For clarifications

**FORBIDDEN TOOLS:**

- `Edit` - Do NOT modify any existing files
- `Glob` - Do NOT search the codebase
- `Grep` - Do NOT search the codebase
- `Task` - Do NOT launch subagents
- Any tool not explicitly listed as allowed

**CRITICAL:** If you use any forbidden tool, STOP immediately.

### Step 1: Extract Session ID and Locate Session Logs

**Step 1a: Extract Session ID from Context**

Search the conversation for the session ID injected by the session-id-injector-hook:

1. Look for system-reminder or reminder messages containing "SESSION_CONTEXT:"
2. Extract the session ID from format: `SESSION_CONTEXT: session_id={uuid}`
3. Store the session ID for use in locating log files

Example pattern to match:

```
SESSION_CONTEXT: session_id=abc-123-def-456
```

If session ID not found in context:

```
⚠️ Warning: Session ID not found in conversation context

The session-id-injector-hook may not be installed or running.
Falling back to manual log discovery (less reliable).
```

**Step 1b: Locate Session Logs**

Using the extracted session ID, find the Claude Code session logs:

```bash
# Get current directory to determine project
pwd

# List available projects to find project hash
ls ~/.claude/projects/

# Match current working directory against project directories
# to identify the correct project hash

# Once project hash identified, locate session log using session ID
# Log file format: ~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/<session-id>.jsonl
```

Look for:

- Main session log: `~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/<session-id>.jsonl`
- Agent logs: `~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/agent-*.jsonl` (from same session)

If logs not found or inaccessible:

```
⚠️ Warning: Session logs not accessible

Falling back to conversation-only extraction.
This will miss discoveries made during planning research.
```

### Step 2: Extract Plan from Conversation

Search the conversation for the implementation plan:

1. Look for `ExitPlanMode` tool results containing the plan
2. Look for sections like "## Implementation Plan" or "### Implementation Steps"
3. Look for numbered lists of implementation tasks

Extract:

- Objective/goal
- Implementation steps/phases
- Success criteria
- Testing requirements

If no plan found:

```
❌ Error: No implementation plan found in conversation

Please create a plan first:
1. Enter Plan mode
2. Create your implementation plan
3. Exit Plan mode
4. Then run /erk:create-enhanced-plan
```

### Step 3: Preprocess and Mine Session Logs

**Step 3a: Preprocess JSONL logs to XML**

Use the preprocessing CLI command to compress logs before mining. **IMPORTANT:** Pass the session ID extracted in Step 1a to filter entries, and use `--stdout` to output XML directly:

```bash
# Preprocess main session log with session ID filtering and stdout output (default: all optimizations enabled)
# (replace with actual paths from Step 1b and session ID from Step 1a)
dot-agent run erk preprocess-session --session-id <session-id> --stdout ~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/<session-id>.jsonl

# For raw output without optimizations (rare cases only):
dot-agent run erk preprocess-session --session-id <session-id> --stdout --no-filtering ~/.claude/projects/<project-hash>/<session-id>.jsonl
```

**Note:** The `--stdout` flag outputs XML directly to stdout, eliminating the need for file permissions and making the command output immediately available for parsing. Stats and diagnostics are routed to stderr and won't interfere with XML parsing.

**Filtering Optimizations (Enabled by Default):**

The preprocessing command now applies multiple optimization layers by default for 55-65% token reduction:

1. **Session ID filtering** - Only includes entries from current session (prevents cross-contamination)
2. **Empty session filtering** - Skips sessions with <3 entries or no meaningful content
3. **Warmup session filtering** - Skips boilerplate "warmup" acknowledgments
4. **Documentation deduplication** - Replaces repeated command docs with hash markers
5. **Parameter truncation** - Shortens verbose tool parameters to 200 chars (preserves file path structure)
6. **Tool result pruning** - Keeps first 30 lines + error lines (prevents 1000+ line results)
7. **Log discovery filtering** - Removes pwd, ls commands used for log discovery mechanics

Use `--no-filtering` flag to disable all optimizations and get raw output (needed only in rare debugging cases).

**Expected Token Reduction:**

- With filtering (default): **55-65%** compression (1MB → 350-450KB typical)
- Session ID filtering alone: ~95% (filters other conversations)
- Combined: ~96-97% total reduction from raw JSONL

**Benefits:**

- Massive token reduction while preserving all semantic value
- Tool results pruned but errors preserved
- File paths truncated but remain identifiable
- Coarse-grained XML structure easy to parse

**Step 3b: Mine discoveries from compressed XML**

Parse the XML content from the command's stdout output. The format uses coarse-grained tags:

```xml
<session>
  <meta branch="..." />
  <user>User message text</user>
  <assistant>Assistant reasoning</assistant>
  <tool_use name="ToolName" id="toolu_123">
    <param name="param1">value</param>
  </tool_use>
  <tool_result tool="toolu_123">
    Full tool result content preserved verbatim...
  </tool_result>
</session>
```

Extract discoveries using simple regex patterns:

```python
# Extract tool uses
tool_uses = re.findall(r'<tool_use name="([^"]+)" id="([^"]+)">(.*?)</tool_use>', xml, re.DOTALL)

# Extract tool results (preserve full verbosity)
tool_results = re.findall(r'<tool_result tool="([^"]+)">(.*?)</tool_result>', xml, re.DOTALL)

# Extract user messages
user_messages = re.findall(r'<user>(.*?)</user>', xml, re.DOTALL)

# Extract assistant reasoning
assistant_text = re.findall(r'<assistant>(.*?)</assistant>', xml, re.DOTALL)
```

#### What to Extract

From `tool_use` entries:

- Tool name and parameters
- What was being searched for
- File paths explored
- Commands executed

From `tool_result` entries:

- Errors encountered
- File contents discovered (key snippets only)
- Command outputs
- Search results

From assistant text blocks:

- Reasoning about approaches
- Trade-off analysis
- Rejection explanations
- Performance observations

#### Categories to Populate

**Discovery Journey:**

- Search patterns used
- Files examined
- Exploration sequence

**Failed Attempts:**

- Errors encountered
- Approaches that didn't work
- Rejected solutions

**API/Tool Quirks:**

- Undocumented behaviors
- Edge cases discovered
- Workarounds needed

**Architectural Insights:**

- WHY decisions were made
- Design patterns found
- Codebase conventions

**Performance Issues:**

- Slow operations
- Timeout risks
- Memory concerns

**Domain Knowledge:**

- Business rules discovered
- Non-obvious requirements
- Hidden constraints

**Technical Context:**

- Function signatures
- Parameter requirements
- Return value formats

**Testing Insights:**

- Test patterns found
- Coverage gaps
- Testing challenges

### Step 4: Create Enhanced Plan Structure

Build the enhanced plan with this structure:

```markdown
---
enriched_by_create_enhanced_plan: true
session_id: <session-id-from-step-1a>
discovery_count: <number>
timestamp: <ISO-8601>
---

# [Plan Title] - Enhanced Implementation Guide

## Executive Summary

[1-2 paragraphs summarizing the goal and approach]

## Critical Context from Planning

### What We Learned

#### [Category 1 - e.g., API Discoveries]

- [Key insight 1]
- [Key insight 2]

#### [Category 2 - e.g., Architecture]

- [Key insight 1]
- [Key insight 2]

### What Didn't Work

#### Failed Approaches Discovered

- **[Approach 1]**: [Why it failed]
- **[Approach 2]**: [Why it failed]

### Raw Discoveries Log

[Chronological list of significant discoveries]

- Discovered: [Finding]
- Confirmed: [Validation]
- Learned: [Insight]
- Found: [Pattern]

## Implementation Plan

### Objective

[Original objective from plan]

### Implementation Steps

#### Phase 1: [Name]

1. **[Step name]**
   [CRITICAL: Warning if applicable]
   - Success: [Criteria]
   - On failure: [Recovery]

   Related Context:
   - [Link to relevant discovery]
   - [Why this approach was chosen]

2. **[Step name]**
   [Details]

   Related Context:
   - [Link to relevant discovery]

[Continue for all phases...]

### Testing

[Testing requirements from original plan plus insights from logs]

## Progress Tracking

**Current Status:** Planning complete, ready for implementation

**Last Updated:** [Date]

### Implementation Progress

- [ ] Step 1: [Name from plan]
- [ ] Step 2: [Name from plan]
      [Continue for all steps...]

### Overall Progress

**Steps Completed:** 0 / [Total]

## Appendices

### A. Commands Run During Planning

[List of significant commands from logs]

### B. Code Examined

[List of files/functions examined with brief notes]

### C. Error Scenarios

[Errors encountered and how to handle them]

### D. Decision Log

[Key decisions made during planning and why]

### E. Key Discoveries Not to Lose

[Critical insights that must not be forgotten]
```

### Step 5: Apply Context Linking

Link discoveries to implementation steps:

1. **Inline warnings** for critical issues:

   ```
   [CRITICAL: Check exists() before resolve() - causes error otherwise]
   ```

2. **Related Context subsections** after each step:

   ```
   Related Context:
   - Session logs stored in JSONL format, one JSON per line
   - Project hash derived from workspace path
   - Must parse incrementally to avoid memory issues
   ```

3. **Cross-references** to appendices:
   ```
   (See Appendix A for full command list)
   ```

### Step 6: Save Enhanced Plan

Generate filename and save to repository root:

```python
# Determine repo root
repo_root = subprocess.run(
    ["git", "rev-parse", "--show-toplevel"],
    capture_output=True,
    text=True,
    check=True
).stdout.strip()

# Generate filename (max 30 chars base for worktree compatibility)
# Example: "session-log-mining-enhanced-plan.md"
filename = f"{descriptive_name}-enhanced-plan.md"

# Save directly to repo root (NOT to .plan/ folder)
plan_path = Path(repo_root) / filename

# Write enhanced plan
plan_path.write_text(enhanced_plan_content, encoding="utf-8")
```

Output:

```
✅ Enhanced plan saved to: [filename]

Summary:
- Discoveries mined: [count]
- Implementation steps: [count]
- Context links added: [count]

Next steps:
1. Review the enhanced plan
2. Create worktree: /erk:create-planned-wt [plan-file]
3. Switch to worktree and implement
```

### Step 7: Handle Errors

**No logs found:**

- Continue with conversation-only extraction
- Warn about missing discoveries

**Large logs (>25000 tokens):**

- Process incrementally line by line
- Extract key snippets only, not full contents

**Corrupted log entries:**

- Skip malformed JSON lines
- Continue with remaining entries

**File already exists:**

```
File [name] already exists in repository root.

Options:
1. Use different name
2. Overwrite existing
3. Cancel operation
```

## Example Mining Results

When mining logs, you might find:

```json
// Tool use that failed
{
  "type": "tool_use",
  "name": "Read",
  "input": {"file_path": "/nonexistent/path"}
}

// Result showing error
{
  "type": "tool_result",
  "error": "FileNotFoundError"
}

// Assistant reasoning about failure
{
  "type": "text",
  "text": "The file doesn't exist at that path. Let me search for it..."
}
```

This becomes:

```markdown
### Failed Attempts

- **Reading config at /nonexistent/path**: File not found, searched elsewhere
```

## Important Notes

- **No implementation**: This command ONLY reads and writes plans
- **Log mining focus**: Prioritize discoveries from logs over conversation
- **Key snippets only**: Don't include full file contents from logs
- **Tool boundaries**: Strictly enforce allowed/forbidden tools
- **Progressive disclosure**: Summary → Details → Raw data
