packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context.md, before:

---
description: Extract plan from conversation, fully enhance it, and create GitHub issue
---

# /erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context

Extract implementation plan from conversation, enhance it for autonomous execution, and create GitHub issue directly without saving to disk.

## Goal

This command combines:

- Plan extraction from conversation (like create-plan-issue-from-context)
- Full enrichment process (like save-context-enriched-plan)
- Direct GitHub issue creation (like create-plan-issue-from-context)

**What This Command Does:**

✅ Find plan in conversation
✅ Apply optional guidance to plan
✅ Interactively enhance plan for autonomous execution
✅ Extract semantic understanding and context
✅ Structure complex plans into phases (when beneficial)
✅ Create GitHub issue with enriched content

**What This Command Does NOT Do:**

❌ No disk persistence (issue-only workflow)
❌ Cannot be used with /erk:create-planned-wt later (requires plan file on disk)

## Usage

```bash
/erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context [guidance]
```

**Examples:**

- `/erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context` - Create enriched issue
- `/erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context "Add retry logic"` - Apply guidance first

## Prerequisites

- Plan must exist in conversation (≥100 chars with headers or lists)
- Must be in a git repository
- `gh` CLI must be installed and authenticated
- GitHub repository must be accessible

## How It Works

1. **Verify Prerequisites** - Check git repo and gh CLI
2. **Extract Plan** - Find implementation plan in conversation
   3-5. **[ENRICHMENT PROCESS]** - Apply guidance, extract understanding, enhance interactively
3. **Add YAML Front Matter** - Mark as erk plan
4. **Extract Title** - Derive from plan content
5. **Ensure Label Exists** - Create erk-plan label if needed
6. **Create GitHub Issue** - Submit with enriched content
7. **Display Success** - Show issue URL and next steps

## Limitations

⚠️ **This workflow creates issues only (no local plan file)**

- Cannot create worktree from this issue later (requires plan file on disk)
- No local backup of plan content (exists only in GitHub issue)
- Cannot edit plan file before issue creation

**If you need worktree workflow:**

1. Use `/erk:save-context-enriched-plan` to save plan to disk
2. Use `/erk:create-planned-wt` to create worktree
3. Use `/erk:create-planned-issue` to create issue

---

## Agent Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context` command.

### CRITICAL: Tool Restrictions

**ALLOWED TOOLS:**

- `Read` - For examining the conversation
- `Bash` - ONLY for `gh` commands and `git rev-parse`
- `AskUserQuestion` - For enrichment clarifications

**FORBIDDEN TOOLS:**

- `Edit` - Do NOT modify any existing files
- `Write` - Do NOT write any files (issue-only workflow)
- `Glob` - Do NOT search the codebase
- `Grep` - Do NOT search the codebase
- `Task` - Do NOT launch subagents
- Any tool not explicitly listed as allowed

**CRITICAL:** If you use any forbidden tool, STOP immediately.

### Step 1: Verify Prerequisites

Check that required tools are available:

1. Verify we're in a git repository:

   ```bash
   git rev-parse --git-dir
   ```

   If fails:

   ```
   ❌ Error: Not in a git repository

   This command must be run from within a git repository.
   ```

   Exit with error.

2. Check if gh CLI is available:

   ```bash
   gh --version
   ```

   If fails:

   ```
   ❌ Error: gh CLI not found

   Install gh CLI:
   - macOS: brew install gh
   - See: https://cli.github.com

   After installation, authenticate:
   gh auth login
   ```

   Exit with error.

3. Check gh authentication:

   ```bash
   gh auth status
   ```

   If fails:

   ```
   ❌ Error: gh CLI not authenticated

   Run: gh auth login
   Follow prompts to authenticate with GitHub.
   ```

   Exit with error.

### Step 2: Extract Plan from Conversation

Search backwards from recent messages in the conversation for an implementation plan.

**Where to look:**

1. `ExitPlanMode` tool results containing the plan
2. Sections like "## Implementation Plan" or "### Implementation Steps"
3. Structured markdown with numbered lists of implementation tasks
4. Any substantial markdown content with headers and lists

**What to extract:**

- Complete plan content (minimum 100 characters)
- Must have structure (headers, lists, or numbered steps)
- Extract as-is for now - enrichment happens in next steps

**Validation criteria:**

- Plan must be ≥100 characters
- Plan must have structure:
  - Contains headers (# or ##) OR
  - Contains numbered lists (1. 2. 3.) OR
  - Contains bulleted lists (- or \*)

**If no valid plan found:**

```
❌ Error: No implementation plan found in conversation

Details: Could not find valid plan with structure (headers or lists) and ≥100 characters

Suggested action:
1. Ensure plan is in conversation
2. Plan should have headers or numbered/bulleted lists
3. Re-paste plan in conversation if needed
```

Exit with error.

### Steps 3-5: Enrichment Process

@../docs/enrichment-process.md

Apply the complete enrichment process to enhance the extracted plan for autonomous execution.

**Note:** The enrichment process includes:

- Applying optional guidance (if provided as command argument)
- Extracting semantic understanding from planning discussion
- Interactive enhancement with clarifying questions

Store the enriched plan content for use in subsequent steps.

### Step 6: Add YAML Front Matter

Prepend YAML front matter to the enriched plan content.

**Algorithm:**

1. Get current timestamp in ISO8601 format (e.g., `2025-11-22T09:00:00Z`)
2. Construct front matter:

   ```yaml
   ---
   erk_plan: true
   created_at: <timestamp>
   ---
   ```

3. Prepend to enriched plan content with double newline after closing `---`

**CRITICAL:** YAML delimiters must be on separate lines with newlines before and after.

**Example output structure:**

```markdown
---
erk_plan: true
created_at: 2025-11-22T09:00:00Z
---

# [Enriched Plan Title]

[Enriched plan content with Context & Understanding sections...]
```

**Store this as the full issue body** for use in Step 9.

### Step 7: Extract Title from Plan

Extract title from the enriched plan content to use as GitHub issue title.

**Algorithm (try in priority order):**

1. Check for YAML front matter `title:` field in enriched plan
2. Extract first H1 heading (`# Title`)
3. Extract first H2 heading (`## Title`)
4. Fallback: Use first non-empty line

**Title cleanup:**

- Remove markdown formatting (`#`, `##`, backticks, etc.)
- Trim leading/trailing whitespace
- Limit to 100 characters (GitHub recommendation)

**If title extraction completely fails:**

Use fallback title: `"Implementation Plan"`

### Step 8: Ensure GitHub Label Exists

Check if the `erk-plan` label exists, and create it if needed.

1. Check for label using gh CLI:

   ```bash
   gh label list --json name --jq '.[] | select(.name == "erk-plan") | .name'
   ```

2. If label doesn't exist (empty output), create it:

   ```bash
   gh label create "erk-plan" \
     --description "Implementation plan for manual execution" \
     --color "0E8A16"
   ```

   Note: Color 0E8A16 is GitHub's default green color for planning labels.

3. If label already exists: Continue silently (no output needed)

4. If label creation fails:

   ```
   ⚠️  Warning: Could not create erk-plan label

   Command output: <stderr>

   Continuing with issue creation...
   ```

   Continue to Step 9 (non-blocking warning - gh will accept the label even if not in repo's label list)

### Step 9: Create GitHub Issue

Use gh CLI to create the issue with enriched plan content.

**CRITICAL:** Issue body must include YAML front matter from Step 6 with enriched content.

1. Create the issue using the kit CLI command:

   ```bash
   result=$(echo "$enriched_plan" | dot-agent kit-command erk create-issue "$title" --label "erk-plan")

   # Parse JSON output
   if ! echo "$result" | jq -e '.success' > /dev/null; then
       echo "❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue" >&2
       exit 1
   fi

   issue_number=$(echo "$result" | jq -r '.issue_number')
   issue_url=$(echo "$result" | jq -r '.issue_url')
   ```

   Note: The kit CLI command handles body via stdin, eliminating permission prompts

2. If kit command fails:

   ```
   ❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

   Details: <stderr>

   Suggested action:
   1. Check authentication: gh auth status
   2. Verify repository access: gh repo view
   3. Check network connectivity
   ```

   Exit with error.

### Step 10: Display Success Output

After successfully creating the issue, output:

```
✅ GitHub issue created: #<number>

🔗 <issue_url>

📋 This issue includes the enriched plan with:
   - Context & Understanding sections
   - Interactive enhancements
   - Implementation steps with linked context

Next steps:
1. Review issue content on GitHub
2. Implement manually or assign to team member
3. Track progress in GitHub issue

---

{"issue_number": <number>, "issue_url": "<url>", "status": "created", "enriched": true}
```

**Format notes:**

- Use emoji for visual clarity
- Highlight that enrichment was applied
- JSON output for potential scripting integration
- Clear next steps

## Error Handling

**Use this format for all errors:**

```
❌ Error: [Brief description]

[Context or details]

[Suggested action if applicable]
```

**Common error cases:**

1. **Not in git repository** - See Step 1
2. **gh CLI not found** - See Step 1
3. **gh not authenticated** - See Step 1
4. **No plan found** - See Step 2
5. **Label creation failed** - See Step 8 (non-blocking warning)
6. **Issue creation failed** - See Step 9

Commit message:

Replace YAML front matter with collapsible GitHub metadata blocks for cleaner plan issue presentation
Replaced YAML front matter (---) with collapsible <details> blocks using erk-plan metadata key. This improves GitHub issue presentation by hiding verbose plan metadata by default while maintaining accessibility.

## Changes

### Added
- `packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/kit_cli_commands/erk/wrap_plan_in_metadata_block.py` - New kit CLI command that wraps plan content in collapsible metadata block with erk-plan key
- `tests/integration/test_plan_issue_creation.py` - Integration tests verifying wrap-plan command output format and special character handling

### Modified
- `packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/kit.yaml` - Registered new wrap-plan-in-metadata-block command
- `packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-plan-issue-from-context.md` - Updated to use metadata block wrapping
- `packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context.md` - Updated to use metadata block wrapping
- `.claude/commands/erk/create-plan-issue-from-plan-file.md` - Updated to use metadata block wrapping
- `tests/unit/integrations/github/test_metadata_blocks.py` - Added unit tests for plan wrapping functionality
- `.agent/kits/kit-registry.md` and registry entry files - Formatting cleanup (removed unnecessary blank lines)

## Key Changes

- Metadata presentation: Shifted from YAML front matter to collapsible `<details>` blocks
- User experience: Plan metadata now hidden by default but fully expandable
- Command workflow: All 3 plan issue creation commands now use unified metadata wrapping approach
- Test coverage: 5 integration tests + 4 unit tests validate formatting, special characters, and edge cases

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context.md, after:

---
description: Extract plan from conversation, fully enhance it, and create GitHub issue
---

# /erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context

Extract implementation plan from conversation, enhance it for autonomous execution, and create GitHub issue directly without saving to disk.

## Goal

This command combines:

- Plan extraction from conversation (like create-plan-issue-from-context)
- Full enrichment process (like save-context-enriched-plan)
- Direct GitHub issue creation (like create-plan-issue-from-context)

**What This Command Does:**

✅ Find plan in conversation
✅ Apply optional guidance to plan
✅ Interactively enhance plan for autonomous execution
✅ Extract semantic understanding and context
✅ Structure complex plans into phases (when beneficial)
✅ Create GitHub issue with enriched content

**What This Command Does NOT Do:**

❌ No disk persistence (issue-only workflow)
❌ Cannot be used with /erk:create-planned-wt later (requires plan file on disk)

## Usage

```bash
/erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context [guidance]
```

**Examples:**

- `/erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context` - Create enriched issue
- `/erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context "Add retry logic"` - Apply guidance first

## Prerequisites

- Plan must exist in conversation (≥100 chars with headers or lists)
- Must be in a git repository
- `gh` CLI must be installed and authenticated
- GitHub repository must be accessible

## How It Works

1. **Verify Prerequisites** - Check git repo and gh CLI
2. **Extract Plan** - Find implementation plan in conversation
   3-5. **[ENRICHMENT PROCESS]** - Apply guidance, extract understanding, enhance interactively
3. **Wrap in Metadata Block** - Use collapsible `<details>` with `erk-plan` key
4. **Extract Title** - Derive from plan content
5. **Ensure Label Exists** - Create erk-plan label if needed
6. **Create GitHub Issue** - Submit with enriched content
7. **Display Success** - Show issue URL and next steps

## Limitations

⚠️ **This workflow creates issues only (no local plan file)**

- Cannot create worktree from this issue later (requires plan file on disk)
- No local backup of plan content (exists only in GitHub issue)
- Cannot edit plan file before issue creation

**If you need worktree workflow:**

1. Use `/erk:save-context-enriched-plan` to save plan to disk
2. Use `/erk:create-planned-wt` to create worktree
3. Use `/erk:create-planned-issue` to create issue

---

## Agent Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:create-enriched-plan-issue-from-context` command.

### CRITICAL: Tool Restrictions

**ALLOWED TOOLS:**

- `Read` - For examining the conversation
- `Bash` - ONLY for `gh` commands and `git rev-parse`
- `AskUserQuestion` - For enrichment clarifications

**FORBIDDEN TOOLS:**

- `Edit` - Do NOT modify any existing files
- `Write` - Do NOT write any files (issue-only workflow)
- `Glob` - Do NOT search the codebase
- `Grep` - Do NOT search the codebase
- `Task` - Do NOT launch subagents
- Any tool not explicitly listed as allowed

**CRITICAL:** If you use any forbidden tool, STOP immediately.

### Step 1: Verify Prerequisites

Check that required tools are available:

1. Verify we're in a git repository:

   ```bash
   git rev-parse --git-dir
   ```

   If fails:

   ```
   ❌ Error: Not in a git repository

   This command must be run from within a git repository.
   ```

   Exit with error.

2. Check if gh CLI is available:

   ```bash
   gh --version
   ```

   If fails:

   ```
   ❌ Error: gh CLI not found

   Install gh CLI:
   - macOS: brew install gh
   - See: https://cli.github.com

   After installation, authenticate:
   gh auth login
   ```

   Exit with error.

3. Check gh authentication:

   ```bash
   gh auth status
   ```

   If fails:

   ```
   ❌ Error: gh CLI not authenticated

   Run: gh auth login
   Follow prompts to authenticate with GitHub.
   ```

   Exit with error.

### Step 2: Extract Plan from Conversation

Search backwards from recent messages in the conversation for an implementation plan.

**Where to look:**

1. `ExitPlanMode` tool results containing the plan
2. Sections like "## Implementation Plan" or "### Implementation Steps"
3. Structured markdown with numbered lists of implementation tasks
4. Any substantial markdown content with headers and lists

**What to extract:**

- Complete plan content (minimum 100 characters)
- Must have structure (headers, lists, or numbered steps)
- Extract as-is for now - enrichment happens in next steps

**Validation criteria:**

- Plan must be ≥100 characters
- Plan must have structure:
  - Contains headers (# or ##) OR
  - Contains numbered lists (1. 2. 3.) OR
  - Contains bulleted lists (- or \*)

**If no valid plan found:**

```
❌ Error: No implementation plan found in conversation

Details: Could not find valid plan with structure (headers or lists) and ≥100 characters

Suggested action:
1. Ensure plan is in conversation
2. Plan should have headers or numbered/bulleted lists
3. Re-paste plan in conversation if needed
```

Exit with error.

### Steps 3-5: Enrichment Process

@../docs/enrichment-process.md

Apply the complete enrichment process to enhance the extracted plan for autonomous execution.

**Note:** The enrichment process includes:

- Applying optional guidance (if provided as command argument)
- Extracting semantic understanding from planning discussion
- Interactive enhancement with clarifying questions

Store the enriched plan content for use in subsequent steps.

### Step 6: Wrap Plan in Metadata Block

Use the kit CLI command to wrap the enriched plan content in a collapsible metadata block.

**Algorithm:**

1. Pass the enriched plan content to the kit CLI command:

   ```bash
   issue_body=$(echo "$enriched_plan" | dot-agent kit-command erk wrap-plan-in-metadata-block)
   if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
       echo "❌ Error: Failed to wrap plan in metadata block" >&2
       exit 1
   fi
   ```

2. This creates a collapsible `<details>` block with the plan content embedded in YAML

**Example output structure:**

```markdown
This issue contains an implementation plan:

<details>
<summary><code>erk-plan</code></summary>
```yaml
# [Enriched Plan Title]

[Enriched plan content with Context & Understanding sections...]
```
</details>
```

**Store this as `$issue_body`** for use in Step 9.

### Step 7: Extract Title from Plan

Extract title from the enriched plan content to use as GitHub issue title.

**Algorithm (try in priority order):**

1. Check for YAML front matter `title:` field in enriched plan
2. Extract first H1 heading (`# Title`)
3. Extract first H2 heading (`## Title`)
4. Fallback: Use first non-empty line

**Title cleanup:**

- Remove markdown formatting (`#`, `##`, backticks, etc.)
- Trim leading/trailing whitespace
- Limit to 100 characters (GitHub recommendation)

**If title extraction completely fails:**

Use fallback title: `"Implementation Plan"`

### Step 8: Ensure GitHub Label Exists

Check if the `erk-plan` label exists, and create it if needed.

1. Check for label using gh CLI:

   ```bash
   gh label list --json name --jq '.[] | select(.name == "erk-plan") | .name'
   ```

2. If label doesn't exist (empty output), create it:

   ```bash
   gh label create "erk-plan" \
     --description "Implementation plan for manual execution" \
     --color "0E8A16"
   ```

   Note: Color 0E8A16 is GitHub's default green color for planning labels.

3. If label already exists: Continue silently (no output needed)

4. If label creation fails:

   ```
   ⚠️  Warning: Could not create erk-plan label

   Command output: <stderr>

   Continuing with issue creation...
   ```

   Continue to Step 9 (non-blocking warning - gh will accept the label even if not in repo's label list)

### Step 9: Create GitHub Issue

Use gh CLI to create the issue with enriched plan content.

**CRITICAL:** Issue body must include the metadata block from Step 6 with enriched content.

1. Create the issue using the kit CLI command:

   ```bash
   result=$(echo "$issue_body" | dot-agent kit-command erk create-issue "$title" --label "erk-plan")

   # Parse JSON output
   if ! echo "$result" | jq -e '.success' > /dev/null; then
       echo "❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue" >&2
       exit 1
   fi

   issue_number=$(echo "$result" | jq -r '.issue_number')
   issue_url=$(echo "$result" | jq -r '.issue_url')
   ```

   Note: The kit CLI command handles body via stdin, eliminating permission prompts

2. If kit command fails:

   ```
   ❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

   Details: <stderr>

   Suggested action:
   1. Check authentication: gh auth status
   2. Verify repository access: gh repo view
   3. Check network connectivity
   ```

   Exit with error.

### Step 10: Display Success Output

After successfully creating the issue, output:

```
✅ GitHub issue created: #<number>

🔗 <issue_url>

📋 This issue includes the enriched plan with:
   - Context & Understanding sections
   - Interactive enhancements
   - Implementation steps with linked context

Next steps:
1. Review issue content on GitHub
2. Implement manually or assign to team member
3. Track progress in GitHub issue

---

{"issue_number": <number>, "issue_url": "<url>", "status": "created", "enriched": true}
```

**Format notes:**

- Use emoji for visual clarity
- Highlight that enrichment was applied
- JSON output for potential scripting integration
- Clear next steps

## Error Handling

**Use this format for all errors:**

```
❌ Error: [Brief description]

[Context or details]

[Suggested action if applicable]
```

**Common error cases:**

1. **Not in git repository** - See Step 1
2. **gh CLI not found** - See Step 1
3. **gh not authenticated** - See Step 1
4. **No plan found** - See Step 2
5. **Label creation failed** - See Step 8 (non-blocking warning)
6. **Issue creation failed** - See Step 9
