packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/plan-implement.md, before:

---
description: Execute the implementation plan from .impl/ folder in current directory
---

# /erk:plan-implement

This command reads and executes the `.impl/plan.md` file from the current directory. It is designed to be run after switching to a worktree created by `/erk:save-context-enriched-plan` and `/erk:create-wt-from-plan-file`.

## Usage

```bash
/erk:plan-implement
```

## Prerequisites

- Must be in a worktree directory that contains `.impl/` folder
- Typically run after `erk checkout <branch>`
- `.impl/plan.md` should contain a valid implementation plan

## What Happens

When you run this command:

1. Verifies `.impl/plan.md` exists in the current directory
2. Reads and parses the implementation plan
3. Creates todo list for tracking progress
4. Executes each phase of the plan sequentially
5. Updates `.impl/progress.md` with step completions
6. Provides progress updates and summary

## Expected Outcome

- Implementation plan executed according to specifications
- Code changes follow project coding standards (if defined)
- Clear progress tracking and completion summary

---

## Agent Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:plan-implement` command. Follow these steps carefully:

### Step 0: Validate Environment

Run the kit command to validate prerequisites:

```bash
dot-agent run erk check-impl --dry-run
```

This validates:

- .impl/ folder exists
- plan.md exists
- progress.md exists
- issue.json format (if present)

If validation fails, the kit command outputs a clear error message. Display it to the user and stop.

### Step 1: Verify .impl/plan.md Exists

Check that `.impl/plan.md` exists in the current directory.

If not found:

```
❌ Error: No plan folder found in current directory

This command must be run from a worktree directory that contains a .impl/ folder with plan.md.

To create a worktree with a plan:
1. Run /erk:save-context-enriched-plan to save your enhanced plan to disk
2. Run /erk:create-wt-from-plan-file to create a worktree from the plan
3. Run: erk checkout <branch>
4. Then run: claude --permission-mode acceptEdits "/erk:plan-implement"
```

### Step 2: Read the Plan File

Read `.impl/plan.md` from the current directory to get the full implementation plan.

Parse the plan to understand:

- Overall goal and context
- **Context & Understanding sections** - Extract valuable discoveries and insights:
  - **API/Tool Quirks**: Undocumented behaviors, timing issues, edge cases
  - **Architectural Insights**: WHY decisions were made, not just what
  - **Domain Logic & Business Rules**: Non-obvious requirements and constraints
  - **Complex Reasoning**: Approaches considered, rejected alternatives and why
  - **Known Pitfalls**: What looks right but causes problems
- Individual phases or tasks
- **Critical warnings** marked with `[CRITICAL:]` tags in implementation steps
- **Related Context subsections** that link steps to Context & Understanding
- Dependencies between tasks
- Success criteria
- Any special requirements or constraints

**IMPORTANT - Context Consumption:**

The Context & Understanding section contains expensive discoveries made during planning. Ignoring this context may cause:

- Implementing solutions that were already proven not to work
- Missing security vulnerabilities or race conditions
- Violating discovered constraints (API limitations, timing requirements)
- Making mistakes that were explicitly documented as pitfalls

Pay special attention to:

- `[CRITICAL:]` tags in steps - these are must-not-miss warnings
- "Related Context:" subsections - these explain WHY and link to detailed context
- "DO NOT" items in Known Pitfalls - these prevent specific bugs
- Rejected approaches in Complex Reasoning - these explain what doesn't work

### Step 2.5: Check for GitHub Issue Reference

Progress tracking via GitHub comments is available if `.impl/issue.json` exists.
The kit CLI commands handle all logic automatically - no manual setup required.

### Step 3: Create TodoWrite Entries

Create todo list entries for each major phase in the plan to track progress.

- Use clear, descriptive task names
- Set all tasks to "pending" status initially
- Include both `content` and `activeForm` for each task

Example:

```json
[
  {
    "content": "Create noun-based command structure",
    "status": "pending",
    "activeForm": "Creating noun-based command structure"
  },
  {
    "content": "Merge init and install commands",
    "status": "pending",
    "activeForm": "Merging init and install commands"
  }
]
```

### Step 3.5: Post Start Comment to GitHub Issue

Post a single comprehensive start comment with implementation context:

```bash
dot-agent run erk post-start-comment 2>/dev/null || true
```

This posts a comment containing:

- Worktree name and branch name
- Complete list of all implementation steps
- Structured YAML metadata

If issue tracking is not enabled (no valid issue.json), this will output an info message and exit gracefully.

### Step 3.6: Update Local Implementation Timestamp

Update the GitHub issue's plan-header metadata with the local implementation start time:

```bash
dot-agent run erk mark-impl-started 2>/dev/null || true
```

This updates:

- `last_local_impl_at` field in the plan-header metadata block
- Used by `erk ls` to show relative time since last local implementation

If issue tracking is not enabled, this will exit gracefully.

### Step 4: Execute Each Phase Sequentially

**🔴 MANDATORY: Tests Required With All Changes**

Every implementation phase that modifies code MUST include corresponding tests. This is non-negotiable:

- **No code change is complete without tests** - If you modify behavior, you must test it
- **Write tests alongside code** - Not as a separate "testing phase" at the end
- **Load `fake-driven-testing` skill FIRST** before writing any test code
- **Follow the 5-layer strategy** - Most tests should be Layer 4 (business logic over fakes)

If a plan phase does not explicitly mention tests, you MUST still write them. The absence of test requirements in a plan step does not excuse omitting tests.

For each phase in the plan:

1. **Mark phase as in_progress** before starting
2. **Read task requirements** carefully
3. **Check relevant coding standards** from project documentation (if available)
4. **Implement the code AND tests together** following these standards:
   - NEVER use try/except for control flow - use LBYL (Look Before You Leap)
   - Use Python 3.13+ type syntax (list[str], str | None, NOT List[str] or Optional[str])
   - NEVER use `from __future__ import annotations`
   - Use ABC for interfaces, never Protocol
   - Check path.exists() before path.resolve() or path.is_relative_to()
   - Use absolute imports only
   - Use click.echo() in CLI code, not print()
   - Add check=True to subprocess.run()
   - Keep indentation to max 4 levels - extract helpers if deeper
   - **When writing tests**: Load the `fake-driven-testing` skill FIRST, then follow these principles:
     - Use the 5-layer defense-in-depth strategy (70% of tests should be Layer 4: business logic over fakes)
     - Write tests over in-memory fakes, not real implementations
     - Use `tmp_path` fixture - NEVER hardcode paths
     - Use `CliRunner` for CLI tests, not subprocess
     - Update all layers (ABC/Real/Fake/DryRun) when changing interfaces
     - No speculative tests - only test actively implemented code
     - Consult `fake-driven-testing` skill references for patterns, workflows, and anti-patterns
5. **Verify implementation** against standards
6. **Mark phase as completed** when done:

   ```bash
   dot-agent run erk mark-step <step_number>
   ```

   **IMPORTANT - Sequential Execution Required:**
   - **NEVER** run multiple `mark-step` commands in parallel
   - This command modifies `.impl/progress.md` and parallel execution causes lost updates
   - If marking multiple steps, use a single command: `dot-agent run erk mark-step 1 2 3`

7. **Verify progress** (optional):
   ```bash
   dot-agent run erk get-progress
   ```
8. **Report progress**: what was done and what's next
9. **Move to next phase**

**IMPORTANT - Progress Tracking:**

The new `.impl/` folder structure separates concerns:

1. **`.impl/plan.md` (immutable reference)**: Contains Objective, Context & Understanding, Implementation Steps/Phases, Testing. This file should NEVER be edited during implementation.

2. **`.impl/progress.md` (mutable tracking)**: Contains checkboxes for all steps extracted from plan.md. This is the ONLY file that should be updated during implementation.

When updating progress:

- Only edit `.impl/progress.md` - never touch `.impl/plan.md`
- Use the `mark-step` kit CLI command to update progress
- The command automatically updates YAML frontmatter and regenerates checkboxes

### Step 5: Follow Erk Coding Standards

Project coding standards (if defined) OVERRIDE any conflicting guidance in the plan.

Key standards:

- Exception handling: LBYL, not EAFP
- Type annotations: Modern Python 3.13+ syntax
- Path operations: Check .exists() first
- Dependency injection: ABC, not Protocol
- Imports: Absolute only
- CLI: Use click.echo()
- Code style: Max 4 indentation levels

Testing standards (load `fake-driven-testing` skill for complete guidance):

- Layer distribution: 5% fake tests / 10% integration sanity / 10% pure unit / 70% business logic over fakes / 5% e2e
- Always use fakes: Write business logic tests over in-memory fakes (FakeGit, FakeGh, etc.)
- Never hardcode paths: Use `tmp_path` fixture exclusively
- CLI testing: Use `CliRunner`, never subprocess
- Integration layer changes: Update ABC → Real → Fake → DryRun (all four)
- No speculative tests: Only test code that is actively being implemented

### Step 6: Report Progress

After completing each major phase, provide an update:

```
✅ Phase X complete: [Brief description]

Changes made:
- [Change 1]
- [Change 2]

Tests added:
- [Test 1]
- [Test 2]

Next: [What's coming next]
```

**🔴 IMPORTANT**: If you cannot list tests in your progress report, the phase is NOT complete. Go back and add tests before marking complete.

### Step 7: Final Verification

After all phases are complete:

1. Confirm all tasks were executed
2. Verify all success criteria are met
3. Note any deviations from the plan (with justification)
4. Provide summary of changes

### Step 8: Final Verification

After completing all implementation steps:

1. **Check for project documentation** at repository root:
   - Look for `CLAUDE.md` or `AGENTS.md` files
   - If found, read these files for CI/testing instructions
   - Follow any specific commands or workflows documented there

2. **Run project-specific CI checks**:
   - If documentation specifies CI commands, use those
   - Otherwise, run common checks if tools are available:
     - Linting: `ruff check .` or equivalent
     - Type checking: `pyright` or equivalent
     - Tests: `pytest` or equivalent
     - Formatting: `ruff format .` or equivalent

3. **Verify all tests pass** before considering implementation complete

4. **Address any failures** by returning to relevant implementation steps

### Step 9: Run CI and Fix Issues Iteratively

Run iterative CI to validate all changes before completion.

**Iterative CI Process (max 5 attempts):**

For each attempt:

1. Run the fast CI checks: `/fast-ci` (unit tests + pyright)
2. If all checks pass: Break out of loop, proceed to cleanup
3. If checks fail: Read the error output carefully
4. Analyze the failures and fix them
5. Increment attempt counter
6. If max attempts reached: Exit with error, DO NOT proceed

**After CI passes (or if .impl/ folder):**

If in .worker-impl/ folder:

1. Delete .worker-impl/ folder: `rm -rf .worker-impl/`
2. Stage deletion: `git add .worker-impl/`
3. Commit: `git commit -m "Clean up worker implementation artifacts after implementation"`
4. Push: `git push`

If in .impl/ folder:

1. DO NOT delete .impl/
2. DO NOT auto-commit
3. Leave changes for user review

### Step 10: Create/Update PR (if .worker-impl/ present)

**Only if .worker-impl/ was present:**

Use gh CLI to create or update PR:

```bash
gh pr create --fill --label "ai-generated" || gh pr edit --add-label "ai-generated"
```

### Step 11: Output Format

Structure your output clearly:

- **Start**: "Executing implementation plan from .PLAN.md"
- **Each phase**: "Phase X: [brief description]" with code changes
- **Progress updates**: Regular status reports
- **End**: "Plan execution complete. [Summary of what was implemented]"

## Requesting Clarification

If clarification is needed during execution:

1. Explain what has been completed so far
2. Clearly state what needs clarification
3. Suggest what information would help proceed
4. Wait for user response before continuing

## Important Notes

- **No time estimates**: Never provide time-based estimates or completion predictions
- **Standards first**: Project coding standards (if defined) override plan instructions
- **Sequential execution**: Complete phases in order unless plan specifies otherwise
- **Progress tracking**: Keep todo list updated throughout
- **User communication**: Provide clear, concise progress updates

Commit message:

Make post-implementation CI configuration pluggable (#1587)
Adds support for repository-specific CI workflows by introducing a `.erk/post-implement.md` configuration file. Projects can now define custom CI validation processes instead of relying on hardcoded defaults. The implementation checks for this file after plan completion and follows its instructions if found, otherwise skips automated CI.

## Files Changed

### Added (2 files)
- `.erk/post-implement.md` - Example post-implementation CI configuration
- `docs/project-setup.md` - Guide for configuring erk in repositories

### Modified (2 files)
- `.gitignore` - Remove `.erk` from ignore list to allow configuration tracking
- `packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/plan-implement.md` - Update CI flow to check for and use repo-specific configuration

## Key Changes

- Repository-specific CI configuration via `.erk/post-implement.md`
- Pluggable CI workflow that projects can customize without modifying erk
- Default behavior skips automated CI and prompts for manual execution
- Documentation guide for configuring erk in new repositories
- Git tracking enabled for `.erk/` directory to support configuration sharing
---


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 1587
```


Closes #1582

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/plan-implement.md, after:

---
description: Execute the implementation plan from .impl/ folder in current directory
---

# /erk:plan-implement

This command reads and executes the `.impl/plan.md` file from the current directory. It is designed to be run after switching to a worktree created by `/erk:save-context-enriched-plan` and `/erk:create-wt-from-plan-file`.

## Usage

```bash
/erk:plan-implement
```

## Prerequisites

- Must be in a worktree directory that contains `.impl/` folder
- Typically run after `erk checkout <branch>`
- `.impl/plan.md` should contain a valid implementation plan

## What Happens

When you run this command:

1. Verifies `.impl/plan.md` exists in the current directory
2. Reads and parses the implementation plan
3. Creates todo list for tracking progress
4. Executes each phase of the plan sequentially
5. Updates `.impl/progress.md` with step completions
6. Provides progress updates and summary

## Expected Outcome

- Implementation plan executed according to specifications
- Code changes follow project coding standards (if defined)
- Clear progress tracking and completion summary

---

## Agent Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:plan-implement` command. Follow these steps carefully:

### Step 0: Validate Environment

Run the kit command to validate prerequisites:

```bash
dot-agent run erk check-impl --dry-run
```

This validates:

- .impl/ folder exists
- plan.md exists
- progress.md exists
- issue.json format (if present)

If validation fails, the kit command outputs a clear error message. Display it to the user and stop.

### Step 1: Verify .impl/plan.md Exists

Check that `.impl/plan.md` exists in the current directory.

If not found:

```
❌ Error: No plan folder found in current directory

This command must be run from a worktree directory that contains a .impl/ folder with plan.md.

To create a worktree with a plan:
1. Run /erk:save-context-enriched-plan to save your enhanced plan to disk
2. Run /erk:create-wt-from-plan-file to create a worktree from the plan
3. Run: erk checkout <branch>
4. Then run: claude --permission-mode acceptEdits "/erk:plan-implement"
```

### Step 2: Read the Plan File

Read `.impl/plan.md` from the current directory to get the full implementation plan.

Parse the plan to understand:

- Overall goal and context
- **Context & Understanding sections** - Extract valuable discoveries and insights:
  - **API/Tool Quirks**: Undocumented behaviors, timing issues, edge cases
  - **Architectural Insights**: WHY decisions were made, not just what
  - **Domain Logic & Business Rules**: Non-obvious requirements and constraints
  - **Complex Reasoning**: Approaches considered, rejected alternatives and why
  - **Known Pitfalls**: What looks right but causes problems
- Individual phases or tasks
- **Critical warnings** marked with `[CRITICAL:]` tags in implementation steps
- **Related Context subsections** that link steps to Context & Understanding
- Dependencies between tasks
- Success criteria
- Any special requirements or constraints

**IMPORTANT - Context Consumption:**

The Context & Understanding section contains expensive discoveries made during planning. Ignoring this context may cause:

- Implementing solutions that were already proven not to work
- Missing security vulnerabilities or race conditions
- Violating discovered constraints (API limitations, timing requirements)
- Making mistakes that were explicitly documented as pitfalls

Pay special attention to:

- `[CRITICAL:]` tags in steps - these are must-not-miss warnings
- "Related Context:" subsections - these explain WHY and link to detailed context
- "DO NOT" items in Known Pitfalls - these prevent specific bugs
- Rejected approaches in Complex Reasoning - these explain what doesn't work

### Step 2.5: Check for GitHub Issue Reference

Progress tracking via GitHub comments is available if `.impl/issue.json` exists.
The kit CLI commands handle all logic automatically - no manual setup required.

### Step 3: Create TodoWrite Entries

Create todo list entries for each major phase in the plan to track progress.

- Use clear, descriptive task names
- Set all tasks to "pending" status initially
- Include both `content` and `activeForm` for each task

Example:

```json
[
  {
    "content": "Create noun-based command structure",
    "status": "pending",
    "activeForm": "Creating noun-based command structure"
  },
  {
    "content": "Merge init and install commands",
    "status": "pending",
    "activeForm": "Merging init and install commands"
  }
]
```

### Step 3.5: Post Start Comment to GitHub Issue

Post a single comprehensive start comment with implementation context:

```bash
dot-agent run erk post-start-comment 2>/dev/null || true
```

This posts a comment containing:

- Worktree name and branch name
- Complete list of all implementation steps
- Structured YAML metadata

If issue tracking is not enabled (no valid issue.json), this will output an info message and exit gracefully.

### Step 3.6: Update Local Implementation Timestamp

Update the GitHub issue's plan-header metadata with the local implementation start time:

```bash
dot-agent run erk mark-impl-started 2>/dev/null || true
```

This updates:

- `last_local_impl_at` field in the plan-header metadata block
- Used by `erk ls` to show relative time since last local implementation

If issue tracking is not enabled, this will exit gracefully.

### Step 4: Execute Each Phase Sequentially

**🔴 MANDATORY: Tests Required With All Changes**

Every implementation phase that modifies code MUST include corresponding tests. This is non-negotiable:

- **No code change is complete without tests** - If you modify behavior, you must test it
- **Write tests alongside code** - Not as a separate "testing phase" at the end
- **Load `fake-driven-testing` skill FIRST** before writing any test code
- **Follow the 5-layer strategy** - Most tests should be Layer 4 (business logic over fakes)

If a plan phase does not explicitly mention tests, you MUST still write them. The absence of test requirements in a plan step does not excuse omitting tests.

For each phase in the plan:

1. **Mark phase as in_progress** before starting
2. **Read task requirements** carefully
3. **Check relevant coding standards** from project documentation (if available)
4. **Implement the code AND tests together** following these standards:
   - NEVER use try/except for control flow - use LBYL (Look Before You Leap)
   - Use Python 3.13+ type syntax (list[str], str | None, NOT List[str] or Optional[str])
   - NEVER use `from __future__ import annotations`
   - Use ABC for interfaces, never Protocol
   - Check path.exists() before path.resolve() or path.is_relative_to()
   - Use absolute imports only
   - Use click.echo() in CLI code, not print()
   - Add check=True to subprocess.run()
   - Keep indentation to max 4 levels - extract helpers if deeper
   - **When writing tests**: Load the `fake-driven-testing` skill FIRST, then follow these principles:
     - Use the 5-layer defense-in-depth strategy (70% of tests should be Layer 4: business logic over fakes)
     - Write tests over in-memory fakes, not real implementations
     - Use `tmp_path` fixture - NEVER hardcode paths
     - Use `CliRunner` for CLI tests, not subprocess
     - Update all layers (ABC/Real/Fake/DryRun) when changing interfaces
     - No speculative tests - only test actively implemented code
     - Consult `fake-driven-testing` skill references for patterns, workflows, and anti-patterns
5. **Verify implementation** against standards
6. **Mark phase as completed** when done:

   ```bash
   dot-agent run erk mark-step <step_number>
   ```

   **IMPORTANT - Sequential Execution Required:**
   - **NEVER** run multiple `mark-step` commands in parallel
   - This command modifies `.impl/progress.md` and parallel execution causes lost updates
   - If marking multiple steps, use a single command: `dot-agent run erk mark-step 1 2 3`

7. **Verify progress** (optional):
   ```bash
   dot-agent run erk get-progress
   ```
8. **Report progress**: what was done and what's next
9. **Move to next phase**

**IMPORTANT - Progress Tracking:**

The new `.impl/` folder structure separates concerns:

1. **`.impl/plan.md` (immutable reference)**: Contains Objective, Context & Understanding, Implementation Steps/Phases, Testing. This file should NEVER be edited during implementation.

2. **`.impl/progress.md` (mutable tracking)**: Contains checkboxes for all steps extracted from plan.md. This is the ONLY file that should be updated during implementation.

When updating progress:

- Only edit `.impl/progress.md` - never touch `.impl/plan.md`
- Use the `mark-step` kit CLI command to update progress
- The command automatically updates YAML frontmatter and regenerates checkboxes

### Step 5: Follow Erk Coding Standards

Project coding standards (if defined) OVERRIDE any conflicting guidance in the plan.

Key standards:

- Exception handling: LBYL, not EAFP
- Type annotations: Modern Python 3.13+ syntax
- Path operations: Check .exists() first
- Dependency injection: ABC, not Protocol
- Imports: Absolute only
- CLI: Use click.echo()
- Code style: Max 4 indentation levels

Testing standards (load `fake-driven-testing` skill for complete guidance):

- Layer distribution: 5% fake tests / 10% integration sanity / 10% pure unit / 70% business logic over fakes / 5% e2e
- Always use fakes: Write business logic tests over in-memory fakes (FakeGit, FakeGh, etc.)
- Never hardcode paths: Use `tmp_path` fixture exclusively
- CLI testing: Use `CliRunner`, never subprocess
- Integration layer changes: Update ABC → Real → Fake → DryRun (all four)
- No speculative tests: Only test code that is actively being implemented

### Step 6: Report Progress

After completing each major phase, provide an update:

```
✅ Phase X complete: [Brief description]

Changes made:
- [Change 1]
- [Change 2]

Tests added:
- [Test 1]
- [Test 2]

Next: [What's coming next]
```

**🔴 IMPORTANT**: If you cannot list tests in your progress report, the phase is NOT complete. Go back and add tests before marking complete.

### Step 7: Final Verification

After all phases are complete:

1. Confirm all tasks were executed
2. Verify all success criteria are met
3. Note any deviations from the plan (with justification)
4. Provide summary of changes

### Step 8: Final Verification

After completing all implementation steps:

1. **Check for project documentation** at repository root:
   - Look for `CLAUDE.md` or `AGENTS.md` files
   - If found, read these files for CI/testing instructions
   - Follow any specific commands or workflows documented there

2. **Run project-specific CI checks**:
   - If documentation specifies CI commands, use those
   - Otherwise, run common checks if tools are available:
     - Linting: `ruff check .` or equivalent
     - Type checking: `pyright` or equivalent
     - Tests: `pytest` or equivalent
     - Formatting: `ruff format .` or equivalent

3. **Verify all tests pass** before considering implementation complete

4. **Address any failures** by returning to relevant implementation steps

### Step 9: Run CI and Fix Issues Iteratively

Run iterative CI to validate all changes before completion.

**Check for repo-specific CI configuration:**

1. Check if `.erk/post-implement.md` exists in the repository root
2. If it exists: Read that file and follow its instructions (it contains the complete CI workflow for this repo)
3. If it does not exist: Use the default erk CI process below

**Default CI Process (no `.erk/post-implement.md` found):**

If no repo-specific CI configuration exists, skip automated CI and inform the user:

```
⚠️ No .erk/post-implement.md found. Skipping automated CI validation.
   Run your project's CI manually before submitting.
```

**After CI passes (or if .impl/ folder):**

If in .worker-impl/ folder:

1. Delete .worker-impl/ folder: `rm -rf .worker-impl/`
2. Stage deletion: `git add .worker-impl/`
3. Commit: `git commit -m "Clean up worker implementation artifacts after implementation"`
4. Push: `git push`

If in .impl/ folder:

1. DO NOT delete .impl/
2. DO NOT auto-commit
3. Leave changes for user review

### Step 10: Create/Update PR (if .worker-impl/ present)

**Only if .worker-impl/ was present:**

Use gh CLI to create or update PR:

```bash
gh pr create --fill --label "ai-generated" || gh pr edit --add-label "ai-generated"
```

### Step 11: Output Format

Structure your output clearly:

- **Start**: "Executing implementation plan from .PLAN.md"
- **Each phase**: "Phase X: [brief description]" with code changes
- **Progress updates**: Regular status reports
- **End**: "Plan execution complete. [Summary of what was implemented]"

## Requesting Clarification

If clarification is needed during execution:

1. Explain what has been completed so far
2. Clearly state what needs clarification
3. Suggest what information would help proceed
4. Wait for user response before continuing

## Important Notes

- **No time estimates**: Never provide time-based estimates or completion predictions
- **Standards first**: Project coding standards (if defined) override plan instructions
- **Sequential execution**: Complete phases in order unless plan specifies otherwise
- **Progress tracking**: Keep todo list updated throughout
- **User communication**: Provide clear, concise progress updates
