packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/plan-craft.md, before:

---
description: Create a plan using Plan Mode and save to GitHub issue
---

# /erk:plan-craft

## Goal

**Create an implementation plan using Plan Mode, then automatically save to GitHub.**

This command orchestrates the full planning workflow:

1. Enter Plan Mode (leverage Claude's planning capabilities)
2. Create a structured implementation plan
3. Exit Plan Mode (plan saved to ~/.claude/plans/)
4. Save plan to GitHub issue automatically

## Command Instructions

You are executing `/erk:plan-craft`. Follow these phases:

### Phase 1: Enter Plan Mode

**IMMEDIATELY use the EnterPlanMode tool.**

Do not ask the user anything first. Just invoke EnterPlanMode now.

The user will approve the Plan Mode transition.

### Phase 2: Plan Creation (In Plan Mode)

Once in Plan Mode, ask the user:

> What would you like me to help you plan?

Then:

1. Explore the codebase to understand context
2. Ask clarifying questions as needed
3. Create a structured implementation plan
4. When the plan is complete, tell the user:

> The plan is ready! When you confirm to proceed, I will save this plan to GitHub as an issue.
>
> Note: This will NOT implement the code yet. Implementation happens separately with:
> erk implement [issue_number]
>
> Ready to save the plan?

### Phase 3: Exit Plan Mode

When the user confirms the plan is ready, **use the ExitPlanMode tool**.

**IMPORTANT WORKFLOW NOTE:**

In this command, exiting Plan Mode returns control back to this command to execute Phase 4 (saving to GitHub). Unlike standard Plan Mode workflows where exiting leads to implementation, here the ExitPlanMode is an intermediate step—not the final step.

The plan will be saved to `~/.claude/plans/` automatically.

### Phase 4: Save to GitHub

**IMPORTANT: After ExitPlanMode completes, continue executing this command.**

Validate prerequisites:

- Verify git repository: `git rev-parse --is-inside-work-tree`
- Verify GitHub CLI: `gh auth status`

Save the plan to GitHub:

```bash
result=$(dot-agent run erk plan-save-to-issue --format json 2>&1)
```

Parse the result and display:

```
✅ Plan created and saved to GitHub

**Issue:** [issue_url]

**Next steps:**

View the plan:
    gh issue view [issue_number] --web

Implement the plan:
    erk implement [issue_number]
```

## Error Handling

If Phase 4 fails (e.g., command doesn't continue after ExitPlanMode):

```
Your plan has been saved to ~/.claude/plans/

To save it to GitHub, run:
    /erk:plan-save
```

Commit message:

Improve ExitPlanMode explanation in plan-craft workflow (#1460)
- **Plan:** [#1457](https://github.com/dagster-io/erk/issues/1457)


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 1460
```


Closes #1457


---
Clarified the transition from plan review to exit, making it explicit that users should confirm understanding before ExitPlanMode executes. Updated Phase 2 prompt to ask for confirmation rather than state readiness. Added detailed explanation in Phase 3 that clarifies the distinction between plan creation and code implementation, sets user expectations about what files will be created, and confirms approval before proceeding.

## Files Changed

### Modified (1 file)
- `packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/plan-craft.md` - Enhanced ExitPlanMode explanation and user confirmation workflow

## Key Changes

- Phase 2: Changed from "The plan is ready!" statement to "Would you like me to save this to GitHub as an issue?" question
- Phase 3: Added pre-ExitPlanMode explanation clarifying plan creation vs code implementation
- Added explicit list of what will happen when user approves (plan file creation, GitHub issue saving)
- Emphasized that implementation is a separate step via `erk implement [issue_number]`
- Improved user mental model by separating the decision point from tool execution

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/plan-craft.md, after:

---
description: Create a plan using Plan Mode and save to GitHub issue
---

# /erk:plan-craft

## Goal

**Create an implementation plan using Plan Mode, then automatically save to GitHub.**

This command orchestrates the full planning workflow:

1. Enter Plan Mode (leverage Claude's planning capabilities)
2. Create a structured implementation plan
3. Exit Plan Mode (plan saved to ~/.claude/plans/)
4. Save plan to GitHub issue automatically

## Command Instructions

You are executing `/erk:plan-craft`. Follow these phases:

### Phase 1: Enter Plan Mode

**IMMEDIATELY use the EnterPlanMode tool.**

Do not ask the user anything first. Just invoke EnterPlanMode now.

The user will approve the Plan Mode transition.

### Phase 2: Plan Creation (In Plan Mode)

Once in Plan Mode, ask the user:

> What would you like me to help you plan?

Then:

1. Explore the codebase to understand context
2. Ask clarifying questions as needed
3. Create a structured implementation plan
4. When the plan is complete, ask the user:

> The plan is ready! Would you like me to save this to GitHub as an issue?

### Phase 3: Exit Plan Mode

When the user confirms the plan is ready, **first explain what will happen**, then use the ExitPlanMode tool.

Before calling ExitPlanMode, tell the user:

> I'll now exit Plan Mode and save this plan to GitHub as an issue.
>
> **Important:** This will ONLY create the plan - no code will be implemented yet.
> To implement the plan, you'll run: `erk implement [issue_number]`
>
> When you approve the next prompt, you're approving:
>
> - Creating the plan file in ~/.claude/plans/
> - Saving it to GitHub as an issue
>
> Ready to proceed?

After the user confirms, **use the ExitPlanMode tool**.

**IMPORTANT WORKFLOW NOTE:**

In this command, exiting Plan Mode returns control back to this command to execute Phase 4 (saving to GitHub). Unlike standard Plan Mode workflows where exiting leads to implementation, here the ExitPlanMode is an intermediate step—not the final step.

The plan will be saved to `~/.claude/plans/` automatically.

### Phase 4: Save to GitHub

**IMPORTANT: After ExitPlanMode completes, continue executing this command.**

Validate prerequisites:

- Verify git repository: `git rev-parse --is-inside-work-tree`
- Verify GitHub CLI: `gh auth status`

Save the plan to GitHub:

```bash
result=$(dot-agent run erk plan-save-to-issue --format json 2>&1)
```

Parse the result and display:

```
✅ Plan created and saved to GitHub

**Issue:** [issue_url]

**Next steps:**

View the plan:
    gh issue view [issue_number] --web

Implement the plan:
    erk implement [issue_number]
```

## Error Handling

If Phase 4 fails (e.g., command doesn't continue after ExitPlanMode):

```
Your plan has been saved to ~/.claude/plans/

To save it to GitHub, run:
    /erk:plan-save
```
