packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/plan-save-enriched.md, before:

---
description: Enrich plan from context and save to new GitHub issue
---

# /erk:plan-save-enriched

## Goal

**Take a plan from `~/.claude/plans/`, enrich it with semantic understanding, and save to a new GitHub issue.**

This command combines the enrichment and save steps for plans already in context (from `~/.claude/plans/`).

**What this command does:**

- ✅ Extract plan from `~/.claude/plans/` (created via ExitPlanMode)
- ✅ Interactively enhance plan for autonomous execution
- ✅ Extract semantic understanding and context (8 categories)
- ✅ Present enriched plan for user review in conversation
- ✅ Save enriched plan to a **NEW** GitHub issue automatically

**What this command CANNOT do:**

- ❌ Edit files on current branch (structurally impossible - agent lacks tools)
- ❌ Implement code (agent has no Write/Edit capabilities)
- ❌ Make commits (agent restricted from git mutations)

**Workflow:**

```
[Plan already in ~/.claude/plans/ from ExitPlanMode]
  ↓
/erk:plan-save-enriched
  ↓
Agent asks clarifying questions
  ↓
Enriched plan displayed for review
  ↓
NEW GitHub issue created automatically
```

**Comparison with related commands:**

| Command                    | Source             | Enrichment | Destination       |
| -------------------------- | ------------------ | ---------- | ----------------- |
| `/erk:plan-enrich [issue]` | GitHub issue #X    | ✅         | Updates issue #X  |
| `/erk:plan-save-enriched`  | `~/.claude/plans/` | ✅         | Creates NEW issue |
| `/erk:plan-save`           | `~/.claude/plans/` | ❌         | Creates NEW issue |

## Usage

```bash
/erk:plan-save-enriched
```

**Note:** This command takes no arguments. It reads the plan from `~/.claude/plans/`.

## Prerequisites

- An implementation plan must exist in `~/.claude/plans/` (created with ExitPlanMode)
- Current working directory must be in a git repository
- GitHub CLI (gh) must be installed and authenticated

## Architecture

```
/erk:plan-save-enriched (orchestrator)
  ↓
  ├─→ Validate prerequisites (git repo, gh auth)
  ├─→ Extract plan from ~/.claude/plans/ via kit CLI
  │     ↓
  │     dot-agent run erk save-plan-from-session --extract-only
  │     Returns JSON: {plan_content, title}
  ├─→ Launch plan-extractor agent (enriched mode)
  │     ↓
  │     Agent enriches plan with context + questions
  │     Agent returns markdown: # Plan: ... with Enrichment Details
  │     (Agent has NO Edit/Write tools - structurally safe)
  ├─→ Display enriched plan in conversation for review
  └─→ Save enriched plan to NEW GitHub issue automatically
```

---

## Command Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:plan-save-enriched` command. Follow these steps carefully:

### Step 1: Validate Prerequisites

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/validate-prerequisites.md

### Step 2: Extract Plan from Plans Directory

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/extract-plan-from-session.md

### Step 3: Launch Plan-Extractor Agent (Enriched Mode)

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/launch-plan-extractor-agent.md

### Step 4: Display Enriched Plan for Review

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/display-enriched-plan.md

**Source description:** `Plan from ~/.claude/plans/`

### Step 5: Save Enriched Plan to GitHub Issue

Create a new GitHub issue with the enriched plan content:

```bash
# Write enriched plan to temp file
temp_plan=$(mktemp)
cat > "$temp_plan" <<'PLAN_EOF'
[enriched plan content from agent]
PLAN_EOF

# Create GitHub issue
gh issue create \
  --title "[plan title from enriched plan]" \
  --body-file "$temp_plan" \
  --label "erk-plan"

# Clean up
rm "$temp_plan"
```

**Extract the new issue number and URL from the output.**

**Error handling:**

If issue creation fails:

```
❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

[gh error output]

Common causes:
- Repository has issues disabled
- Network connectivity issue
- GitHub API rate limit
```

### Step 6: Display Success Summary

```
✅ Enriched plan saved to GitHub

**Issue:** #[issue_number]: [issue_title]
**URL:** [issue_url]
**Enrichment:** [N] context categories extracted, [M] questions asked

**Next steps:**

View the plan:
    gh issue view [issue_number]

Implement the plan:
    erk implement [issue_number]

Implement with auto-confirmation (yolo mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --yolo

Re-enrich the plan (update in place):
    /erk:plan-enrich [issue_number]
```

## Error Scenarios

### No Plan Found

```
❌ Error: No plan found in ~/.claude/plans/

This command requires a plan created with ExitPlanMode. To fix:

1. Create a plan (enter Plan mode if needed)
2. Exit Plan mode using the ExitPlanMode tool
3. Run this command again

The plan will be extracted from ~/.claude/plans/ automatically.
```

### Agent Error

```
❌ Error: [agent error message]

The plan-extractor agent encountered an error during enrichment.
[Display agent error details]
```

## Success Criteria

This command succeeds when ALL of the following are true:

**Plan Extraction:**
✅ Implementation plan extracted from `~/.claude/plans/`
✅ Kit CLI extraction returns valid JSON with plan_content

**Enrichment:**
✅ Plan-extractor agent enriches plan with context
✅ Clarifying questions asked (if needed)
✅ Semantic understanding extracted

**Review:**
✅ Enriched plan displayed in conversation

**Saving:**
✅ New GitHub issue created with enriched plan
✅ Issue has `erk-plan` label applied
✅ Success summary displayed with next steps

## Development Notes

**For maintainers:**

This command demonstrates the **context-to-issue enrichment pattern**:

1. Command extracts plan from `~/.claude/plans/`
2. Command launches specialized agent for enrichment
3. Agent enriches plan (structurally safe)
4. Command displays enriched plan for user review
5. Command creates NEW GitHub issue automatically

**Key design choice:** This command takes a plan from context (not GitHub) and saves to a NEW issue. Use `/erk:plan-enrich [issue]` if you want to enrich an existing issue and update it in place.

**Related commands:**

- `/erk:plan-enrich [issue]` - Fetch from GitHub issue, enrich, UPDATE same issue
- `/erk:plan-save` - Save plan from `~/.claude/plans/` to GitHub issue (no enrichment)

**Agent file:** `.claude/agents/erk/plan-extractor.md`

Commit message:

Extract shared next-steps guidance into reusable include file
Consolidates repetitive "next steps" documentation across planning commands (plan-enrich, plan-save-enriched, plan-save) into a single, maintainable include file. Reduces duplication and ensures consistent guidance for users completing plan operations.

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/plan-save-enriched.md, after:

---
description: Enrich plan from context and save to new GitHub issue
---

# /erk:plan-save-enriched

## Goal

**Take a plan from `~/.claude/plans/`, enrich it with semantic understanding, and save to a new GitHub issue.**

This command combines the enrichment and save steps for plans already in context (from `~/.claude/plans/`).

**What this command does:**

- ✅ Extract plan from `~/.claude/plans/` (created via ExitPlanMode)
- ✅ Interactively enhance plan for autonomous execution
- ✅ Extract semantic understanding and context (8 categories)
- ✅ Present enriched plan for user review in conversation
- ✅ Save enriched plan to a **NEW** GitHub issue automatically

**What this command CANNOT do:**

- ❌ Edit files on current branch (structurally impossible - agent lacks tools)
- ❌ Implement code (agent has no Write/Edit capabilities)
- ❌ Make commits (agent restricted from git mutations)

**Workflow:**

```
[Plan already in ~/.claude/plans/ from ExitPlanMode]
  ↓
/erk:plan-save-enriched
  ↓
Agent asks clarifying questions
  ↓
Enriched plan displayed for review
  ↓
NEW GitHub issue created automatically
```

**Comparison with related commands:**

| Command                    | Source             | Enrichment | Destination       |
| -------------------------- | ------------------ | ---------- | ----------------- |
| `/erk:plan-enrich [issue]` | GitHub issue #X    | ✅         | Updates issue #X  |
| `/erk:plan-save-enriched`  | `~/.claude/plans/` | ✅         | Creates NEW issue |
| `/erk:plan-save`           | `~/.claude/plans/` | ❌         | Creates NEW issue |

## Usage

```bash
/erk:plan-save-enriched
```

**Note:** This command takes no arguments. It reads the plan from `~/.claude/plans/`.

## Prerequisites

- An implementation plan must exist in `~/.claude/plans/` (created with ExitPlanMode)
- Current working directory must be in a git repository
- GitHub CLI (gh) must be installed and authenticated

## Architecture

```
/erk:plan-save-enriched (orchestrator)
  ↓
  ├─→ Validate prerequisites (git repo, gh auth)
  ├─→ Extract plan from ~/.claude/plans/ via kit CLI
  │     ↓
  │     dot-agent run erk save-plan-from-session --extract-only
  │     Returns JSON: {plan_content, title}
  ├─→ Launch plan-extractor agent (enriched mode)
  │     ↓
  │     Agent enriches plan with context + questions
  │     Agent returns markdown: # Plan: ... with Enrichment Details
  │     (Agent has NO Edit/Write tools - structurally safe)
  ├─→ Display enriched plan in conversation for review
  └─→ Save enriched plan to NEW GitHub issue automatically
```

---

## Command Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:plan-save-enriched` command. Follow these steps carefully:

### Step 1: Validate Prerequisites

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/validate-prerequisites.md

### Step 2: Extract Plan from Plans Directory

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/extract-plan-from-session.md

### Step 3: Launch Plan-Extractor Agent (Enriched Mode)

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/launch-plan-extractor-agent.md

### Step 4: Display Enriched Plan for Review

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/display-enriched-plan.md

**Source description:** `Plan from ~/.claude/plans/`

### Step 5: Save Enriched Plan to GitHub Issue

Create a new GitHub issue with the enriched plan content:

```bash
# Write enriched plan to temp file
temp_plan=$(mktemp)
cat > "$temp_plan" <<'PLAN_EOF'
[enriched plan content from agent]
PLAN_EOF

# Create GitHub issue
gh issue create \
  --title "[plan title from enriched plan]" \
  --body-file "$temp_plan" \
  --label "erk-plan"

# Clean up
rm "$temp_plan"
```

**Extract the new issue number and URL from the output.**

**Error handling:**

If issue creation fails:

```
❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

[gh error output]

Common causes:
- Repository has issues disabled
- Network connectivity issue
- GitHub API rate limit
```

### Step 6: Display Success Summary

```
✅ Enriched plan saved to GitHub

**Issue:** #[issue_number]: [issue_title]
**URL:** [issue_url]
**Enrichment:** [N] context categories extracted, [M] questions asked

@../../docs/erk/includes/planning/next-steps-output.md
```

Where `[OPTIONAL_COMMANDS]` in the include expands to:

```
Re-enrich the plan (update in place):
    /erk:plan-enrich [issue_number]
```

## Error Scenarios

### No Plan Found

```
❌ Error: No plan found in ~/.claude/plans/

This command requires a plan created with ExitPlanMode. To fix:

1. Create a plan (enter Plan mode if needed)
2. Exit Plan mode using the ExitPlanMode tool
3. Run this command again

The plan will be extracted from ~/.claude/plans/ automatically.
```

### Agent Error

```
❌ Error: [agent error message]

The plan-extractor agent encountered an error during enrichment.
[Display agent error details]
```

## Success Criteria

This command succeeds when ALL of the following are true:

**Plan Extraction:**
✅ Implementation plan extracted from `~/.claude/plans/`
✅ Kit CLI extraction returns valid JSON with plan_content

**Enrichment:**
✅ Plan-extractor agent enriches plan with context
✅ Clarifying questions asked (if needed)
✅ Semantic understanding extracted

**Review:**
✅ Enriched plan displayed in conversation

**Saving:**
✅ New GitHub issue created with enriched plan
✅ Issue has `erk-plan` label applied
✅ Success summary displayed with next steps

## Development Notes

**For maintainers:**

This command demonstrates the **context-to-issue enrichment pattern**:

1. Command extracts plan from `~/.claude/plans/`
2. Command launches specialized agent for enrichment
3. Agent enriches plan (structurally safe)
4. Command displays enriched plan for user review
5. Command creates NEW GitHub issue automatically

**Key design choice:** This command takes a plan from context (not GitHub) and saves to a NEW issue. Use `/erk:plan-enrich [issue]` if you want to enrich an existing issue and update it in place.

**Related commands:**

- `/erk:plan-enrich [issue]` - Fetch from GitHub issue, enrich, UPDATE same issue
- `/erk:plan-save` - Save plan from `~/.claude/plans/` to GitHub issue (no enrichment)

**Agent file:** `.claude/agents/erk/plan-extractor.md`
