packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/save-raw-plan.md, before:

---
description: Extract plan from Claude session and create GitHub issue (no enrichment)
---

# /erk:save-raw-plan

Extracts the latest implementation plan from Claude session files and creates a GitHub issue with the raw plan content. This command uses an **agent-based architecture** with structural enforcement instead of text warnings.

## Usage

```bash
/erk:save-raw-plan
```

## Purpose

This command provides a **fast path** for creating GitHub issues from session plans. It:

- Extracts the latest `ExitPlanMode` plan from Claude session files (deterministic)
- Creates a GitHub issue with `erk-plan` label
- Preserves plan content exactly as found (no enrichment)
- Outputs JSON metadata with issue URL and number

**What it does NOT do:**

- ❌ No conversation context searching
- ❌ No plan enhancement or enrichment
- ❌ No interactive clarifying questions
- ❌ No semantic understanding extraction
- ❌ No code implementation (structurally impossible)

**Fast Path vs Enriched Path:**

- **save-raw-plan** (this command): Session files → Raw plan → GitHub issue (fast, deterministic)
- **save-plan**: Conversation context → Enriched plan → GitHub issue (interactive, comprehensive)

## Architecture

This command uses the same **plan-extractor agent** but in `raw` mode:

```
/erk:save-raw-plan (orchestrator)
  ↓
  ├─→ Validate prerequisites (git repo, gh auth)
  ├─→ Determine session ID (from environment or current session)
  ├─→ Launch plan-extractor agent in RAW mode (Task tool)
  │     ↓
  │     Agent reads session JSONL files
  │     Agent extracts ExitPlanMode content
  │     Agent returns JSON: {plan_title, plan_content}
  │     (Agent has NO Edit/Write tools - structurally safe)
  ├─→ Save plan to temp file
  ├─→ Call kit CLI: dot-agent run erk create-enriched-plan-from-context --plan-file
  │     ↓
  │     Kit CLI creates GitHub issue
  └─→ Display results (issue URL + copy-pastable commands)
```

**Key Innovation:** Same structural safety as save-plan - agent physically cannot edit files.

## How It Works

1. **Determine session ID** - Get current session or use SESSION_CONTEXT
2. **Launch agent** - Call plan-extractor in raw mode
3. **Extract plan** - Agent reads session JSONL for ExitPlanMode
4. **Create issue** - Use kit CLI to create GitHub issue
5. **Display results** - Show issue URL and commands

---

## Command Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:save-raw-plan` command. Follow these steps carefully:

### Step 1: Validate Prerequisites

Check that prerequisites are met:

```bash
# Verify we're in a git repository
git rev-parse --is-inside-work-tree

# Verify GitHub CLI is authenticated
gh auth status
```

**Error handling:**

If `git rev-parse` fails:

```
❌ Error: Not in a git repository

This command must be run from within a git repository.
```

If `gh auth status` fails:

```
❌ Error: GitHub CLI not authenticated

Run: gh auth login
```

### Step 2: Determine Session ID

The session ID is needed to locate session files.

**Method 1: Check SESSION_CONTEXT environment**

Look for session ID in context:

```bash
# SESSION_CONTEXT is set by hooks like UserPromptSubmit hook
# Format: session_id=71451478-0883-40d1-a8d4-6c36f219c719
echo "$SESSION_CONTEXT"
```

If found, extract the session ID:

```bash
session_id=$(echo "$SESSION_CONTEXT" | grep -oP 'session_id=\K[0-9a-f-]+')
```

**Method 2: Use current session (fallback)**

If no SESSION_CONTEXT available, use a kit CLI command to determine current session:

```bash
# This command finds the most recent session directory
session_id=$(ls -t ~/.claude/projects/ | head -1)
```

**Validation:**

Ensure session ID is a valid UUID format (8-4-4-4-12 hex digits).

**Error handling:**

If no session ID found:

```
❌ Error: Could not determine session ID

Ensure you're running this command within an active Claude session.

Session files are located in: ~/.claude/projects/
```

### Step 3: Launch Plan-Extractor Agent (Raw Mode)

Use the Task tool to launch the agent in raw mode:

**Task tool invocation:**

```json
{
  "subagent_type": "plan-extractor",
  "description": "Extract raw plan from session",
  "prompt": "Extract the implementation plan from session files WITHOUT enrichment.\n\nInput:\n- Mode: raw\n- Session ID: [session_id]\n\nFind the session JSONL files at ~/.claude/projects/[session_id]/data/*.jsonl and extract the latest ExitPlanMode tool use content.\n\nExpected output: JSON with plan_title and plan_content (raw, no enrichment).",
  "model": "haiku"
}
```

**What the agent does:**

1. Reads session JSONL files from `~/.claude/projects/<session_id>/data/*.jsonl`
2. Finds latest ExitPlanMode tool use
3. Extracts plan content
4. Returns JSON (no enrichment, no questions)

**Agent tool restrictions (same as enriched mode):**

- ✅ Read - Can read session files
- ✅ Bash - Can run git commands (read-only)
- ✅ AskUserQuestion - Available but not used in raw mode
- ❌ Edit - NO access
- ❌ Write - NO access
- ❌ Task - NO access

**Error handling:**

If agent returns error JSON:

```
❌ Error: [agent error message]

Common causes:
- No ExitPlanMode found in session files
- Session files don't exist or are corrupted
- Session ID is incorrect

Try:
- Ensure you used ExitPlanMode to present a plan
- Check session files exist: ls ~/.claude/projects/[session_id]/data/
- Use /erk:save-plan with conversation context instead
```

### Step 4: Parse Agent Response

The agent returns JSON in this format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "mode": "raw",
  "plan_title": "Add user authentication",
  "plan_content": "## Overview\n\n...",
  "enrichment": {
    "guidance_applied": false,
    "questions_asked": 0,
    "context_extracted": false
  }
}
```

**Validate response:**

- Check `success` field is true
- Ensure `plan_title` and `plan_content` are present
- Verify `plan_content` is non-empty
- Confirm `mode` is "raw"

**Error handling:**

If `success` is false or fields missing:

```
❌ Error: Agent returned invalid response

[Display agent response for debugging]
```

### Step 5: Save Plan to Temporary File

Write plan content to a temporary file for kit CLI:

```bash
# Create temp file
temp_plan=$(mktemp /tmp/erk-plan-XXXXXX.md)

# Write plan content
cat > "$temp_plan" <<'PLAN_EOF'
[plan_content from agent JSON]
PLAN_EOF
```

### Step 6: Create GitHub Issue via Kit CLI

Call the kit CLI command to create the issue:

```bash
# Call kit CLI with plan file
result=$(dot-agent run erk create-enriched-plan-from-context --plan-file "$temp_plan")

# Clean up temp file
rm "$temp_plan"

# Parse JSON result
echo "$result" | jq .
```

**Expected output:**

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "issue_number": 123,
  "issue_url": "https://github.com/owner/repo/issues/123"
}
```

**Error handling:**

If command fails:

```
❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

[Display kit CLI error output]
```

### Step 7: Display Success Output

Show the user the issue URL and copy-pastable commands:

```
✅ Raw plan saved to GitHub issue

**Issue:** [issue_url]

**Next steps:**

View the plan:
    gh issue view [issue_number]

Implement directly:
    erk implement [issue_number]

Implement with auto-confirmation (yolo mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --yolo

Implement and auto-submit PR (dangerous mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --dangerous

**Note:** This plan was extracted raw from session files without enrichment.
```

**Formatting requirements:**

- Use `✅` for success indicator
- Bold `**Issue:**` and `**Next steps:**`
- Show actual issue URL (clickable)
- Show actual issue number in commands
- Add note about raw extraction

## Error Scenarios

### No ExitPlanMode Found

```
❌ Error: No plan found in session files

Details: No ExitPlanMode tool use found in session JSONL files

Suggested action:
  1. Ensure you used ExitPlanMode to present a plan in this session
  2. Check session files: ls ~/.claude/projects/[session_id]/data/
  3. Try /erk:save-plan with conversation context instead
```

### Session Files Not Found

```
❌ Error: Session files not accessible

Session ID: [session_id]
Expected location: ~/.claude/projects/[session_id]/data/*.jsonl

Suggested action:
  1. Verify session ID is correct
  2. Check directory exists and has read permissions
  3. Use /erk:save-plan with conversation context instead
```

### GitHub CLI Not Authenticated

```
❌ Error: GitHub CLI not authenticated

To use this command, authenticate with GitHub:

    gh auth login

Then try again.
```

## Architecture Benefits

| Aspect          | Previous Design       | Current Design                   |
| --------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Enforcement     | Text warnings         | Structural (tool restrictions)   |
| Implementation  | Inline command logic  | Dedicated agent (raw mode)       |
| Safety          | Behavioral compliance | Physically impossible to violate |
| Session parsing | Kit CLI direct        | Agent delegation                 |
| Bypass-safe     | ❌ No                 | ✅ Yes                           |

## Technical Details

**Session File Location:**

Plans are stored in Claude session files:

```
~/.claude/projects/<session-id>/data/*.jsonl
```

Each JSONL line is a message. The agent searches for:

```json
{
  "type": "tool_use",
  "name": "ExitPlanMode",
  "input": {
    "plan": "[markdown plan content]"
  }
}
```

**Latest Plan Selection:**

If multiple ExitPlanMode entries exist, the agent selects the most recent by file timestamp and line position.

## Important Notes

- **Fast Path**: No interactive questions, no enrichment
- **Deterministic**: Session file parsing is repeatable
- **Raw Content**: Preserves plan exactly as found
- **Structural Safety**: Agent cannot edit files (tool restrictions)
- **Bypass-Safe**: Works correctly even with bypass permissions
- **Reuses Agent**: Same plan-extractor agent, just in raw mode
- **Command Comparison**:
  - `save-raw-plan`: Session files → Raw plan → GitHub issue (this command)
  - `save-plan`: Conversation → Enriched plan → GitHub issue (interactive)

## Development Notes

**For maintainers:**

This command demonstrates **mode-based agent reuse**:

- Same agent (plan-extractor)
- Different mode (raw vs enriched)
- Different behavior (file extraction vs conversation parsing)
- Same safety guarantees (tool restrictions)

**Benefits:**

- Single agent handles both workflows
- Consistent JSON output format
- Reusable orchestration pattern
- Structural safety in both modes

**Agent file:** `.claude/agents/erk/plan-extractor.md`

Commit message:

Add execution summary display to save-plan and save-raw-plan commands (#1047)
Closes #1044

This change enhances the planning workflow by instructing agents to generate and display
a concise execution summary immediately after plan creation. The summary includes a
one-sentence overview of the plan's main objective and three key bullet points
highlighting the most important implementation steps or outcomes. This provides users
with quick context about what was accomplished before displaying the issue URL.

Modified files:
- save-plan.md: Added Substep 6a for execution summary generation
- save-raw-plan.md: Added Substep 7a for execution summary generation

Both commands follow the same summary format for consistency across the planning workflow.

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/save-raw-plan.md, after:

---
description: Extract plan from Claude session and create GitHub issue (no enrichment)
---

# /erk:save-raw-plan

Extracts the latest implementation plan from Claude session files and creates a GitHub issue with the raw plan content. This command uses an **agent-based architecture** with structural enforcement instead of text warnings.

## Usage

```bash
/erk:save-raw-plan
```

## Purpose

This command provides a **fast path** for creating GitHub issues from session plans. It:

- Extracts the latest `ExitPlanMode` plan from Claude session files (deterministic)
- Creates a GitHub issue with `erk-plan` label
- Preserves plan content exactly as found (no enrichment)
- Outputs JSON metadata with issue URL and number

**What it does NOT do:**

- ❌ No conversation context searching
- ❌ No plan enhancement or enrichment
- ❌ No interactive clarifying questions
- ❌ No semantic understanding extraction
- ❌ No code implementation (structurally impossible)

**Fast Path vs Enriched Path:**

- **save-raw-plan** (this command): Session files → Raw plan → GitHub issue (fast, deterministic)
- **save-plan**: Conversation context → Enriched plan → GitHub issue (interactive, comprehensive)

## Architecture

This command uses the same **plan-extractor agent** but in `raw` mode:

```
/erk:save-raw-plan (orchestrator)
  ↓
  ├─→ Validate prerequisites (git repo, gh auth)
  ├─→ Determine session ID (from environment or current session)
  ├─→ Launch plan-extractor agent in RAW mode (Task tool)
  │     ↓
  │     Agent reads session JSONL files
  │     Agent extracts ExitPlanMode content
  │     Agent returns JSON: {plan_title, plan_content}
  │     (Agent has NO Edit/Write tools - structurally safe)
  ├─→ Save plan to temp file
  ├─→ Call kit CLI: dot-agent run erk create-enriched-plan-from-context --plan-file
  │     ↓
  │     Kit CLI creates GitHub issue
  └─→ Display results (issue URL + copy-pastable commands)
```

**Key Innovation:** Same structural safety as save-plan - agent physically cannot edit files.

## How It Works

1. **Determine session ID** - Get current session or use SESSION_CONTEXT
2. **Launch agent** - Call plan-extractor in raw mode
3. **Extract plan** - Agent reads session JSONL for ExitPlanMode
4. **Create issue** - Use kit CLI to create GitHub issue
5. **Display results** - Show issue URL and commands

---

## Command Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:save-raw-plan` command. Follow these steps carefully:

### Step 1: Validate Prerequisites

Check that prerequisites are met:

```bash
# Verify we're in a git repository
git rev-parse --is-inside-work-tree

# Verify GitHub CLI is authenticated
gh auth status
```

**Error handling:**

If `git rev-parse` fails:

```
❌ Error: Not in a git repository

This command must be run from within a git repository.
```

If `gh auth status` fails:

```
❌ Error: GitHub CLI not authenticated

Run: gh auth login
```

### Step 2: Determine Session ID

The session ID is needed to locate session files.

**Method 1: Check SESSION_CONTEXT environment**

Look for session ID in context:

```bash
# SESSION_CONTEXT is set by hooks like UserPromptSubmit hook
# Format: session_id=71451478-0883-40d1-a8d4-6c36f219c719
echo "$SESSION_CONTEXT"
```

If found, extract the session ID:

```bash
session_id=$(echo "$SESSION_CONTEXT" | grep -oP 'session_id=\K[0-9a-f-]+')
```

**Method 2: Use current session (fallback)**

If no SESSION_CONTEXT available, use a kit CLI command to determine current session:

```bash
# This command finds the most recent session directory
session_id=$(ls -t ~/.claude/projects/ | head -1)
```

**Validation:**

Ensure session ID is a valid UUID format (8-4-4-4-12 hex digits).

**Error handling:**

If no session ID found:

```
❌ Error: Could not determine session ID

Ensure you're running this command within an active Claude session.

Session files are located in: ~/.claude/projects/
```

### Step 3: Launch Plan-Extractor Agent (Raw Mode)

Use the Task tool to launch the agent in raw mode:

**Task tool invocation:**

```json
{
  "subagent_type": "plan-extractor",
  "description": "Extract raw plan from session",
  "prompt": "Extract the implementation plan from session files WITHOUT enrichment.\n\nInput:\n- Mode: raw\n- Session ID: [session_id]\n\nFind the session JSONL files at ~/.claude/projects/[session_id]/data/*.jsonl and extract the latest ExitPlanMode tool use content.\n\nExpected output: JSON with plan_title and plan_content (raw, no enrichment).",
  "model": "haiku"
}
```

**What the agent does:**

1. Reads session JSONL files from `~/.claude/projects/<session_id>/data/*.jsonl`
2. Finds latest ExitPlanMode tool use
3. Extracts plan content
4. Returns JSON (no enrichment, no questions)

**Agent tool restrictions (same as enriched mode):**

- ✅ Read - Can read session files
- ✅ Bash - Can run git commands (read-only)
- ✅ AskUserQuestion - Available but not used in raw mode
- ❌ Edit - NO access
- ❌ Write - NO access
- ❌ Task - NO access

**Error handling:**

If agent returns error JSON:

```
❌ Error: [agent error message]

Common causes:
- No ExitPlanMode found in session files
- Session files don't exist or are corrupted
- Session ID is incorrect

Try:
- Ensure you used ExitPlanMode to present a plan
- Check session files exist: ls ~/.claude/projects/[session_id]/data/
- Use /erk:save-plan with conversation context instead
```

### Step 4: Parse Agent Response

The agent returns JSON in this format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "mode": "raw",
  "plan_title": "Add user authentication",
  "plan_content": "## Overview\n\n...",
  "enrichment": {
    "guidance_applied": false,
    "questions_asked": 0,
    "context_extracted": false
  }
}
```

**Validate response:**

- Check `success` field is true
- Ensure `plan_title` and `plan_content` are present
- Verify `plan_content` is non-empty
- Confirm `mode` is "raw"

**Error handling:**

If `success` is false or fields missing:

```
❌ Error: Agent returned invalid response

[Display agent response for debugging]
```

### Step 5: Save Plan to Temporary File

Write plan content to a temporary file for kit CLI:

```bash
# Create temp file
temp_plan=$(mktemp /tmp/erk-plan-XXXXXX.md)

# Write plan content
cat > "$temp_plan" <<'PLAN_EOF'
[plan_content from agent JSON]
PLAN_EOF
```

### Step 6: Create GitHub Issue via Kit CLI

Call the kit CLI command to create the issue:

```bash
# Call kit CLI with plan file
result=$(dot-agent run erk create-enriched-plan-from-context --plan-file "$temp_plan")

# Clean up temp file
rm "$temp_plan"

# Parse JSON result
echo "$result" | jq .
```

**Expected output:**

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "issue_number": 123,
  "issue_url": "https://github.com/owner/repo/issues/123"
}
```

**Error handling:**

If command fails:

```
❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

[Display kit CLI error output]
```

### Step 7: Display Success Output

#### Substep 7a: Generate and Display Execution Summary

After receiving the successful response from the kit CLI, generate a concise summary of what was accomplished:

**Summary Generation Process:**

1. **Extract one-sentence overview** - Create a brief, high-level summary of the plan's main objective from the plan_content
2. **Extract three key bullet points** - Identify the three most important implementation steps or outcomes from the plan
3. **Format and display** - Present summary before the issue URL using this format:

```
**Execution Summary:**

[One sentence overview of what was accomplished]

- [Key bullet point 1]
- [Key bullet point 2]
- [Key bullet point 3]
```

**Implementation note:** Extract summary from the plan_content received from the agent. Raw mode plans may have less structured content than enriched plans, so extract from whatever plan structure exists in the raw content.

#### Substep 7b: Display Issue URL and Next Steps

Show the user the issue URL and copy-pastable commands:

```
✅ Raw plan saved to GitHub issue

**Issue:** [issue_url]

**Next steps:**

View the plan:
    gh issue view [issue_number]

Implement directly:
    erk implement [issue_number]

Implement with auto-confirmation (yolo mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --yolo

Implement and auto-submit PR (dangerous mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --dangerous

**Note:** This plan was extracted raw from session files without enrichment.
```

**Formatting requirements:**

- Use `✅` for success indicator
- Bold `**Issue:**` and `**Next steps:**`
- Show actual issue URL (clickable)
- Show actual issue number in commands
- Add note about raw extraction

## Error Scenarios

### No ExitPlanMode Found

```
❌ Error: No plan found in session files

Details: No ExitPlanMode tool use found in session JSONL files

Suggested action:
  1. Ensure you used ExitPlanMode to present a plan in this session
  2. Check session files: ls ~/.claude/projects/[session_id]/data/
  3. Try /erk:save-plan with conversation context instead
```

### Session Files Not Found

```
❌ Error: Session files not accessible

Session ID: [session_id]
Expected location: ~/.claude/projects/[session_id]/data/*.jsonl

Suggested action:
  1. Verify session ID is correct
  2. Check directory exists and has read permissions
  3. Use /erk:save-plan with conversation context instead
```

### GitHub CLI Not Authenticated

```
❌ Error: GitHub CLI not authenticated

To use this command, authenticate with GitHub:

    gh auth login

Then try again.
```

## Architecture Benefits

| Aspect          | Previous Design       | Current Design                   |
| --------------- | --------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Enforcement     | Text warnings         | Structural (tool restrictions)   |
| Implementation  | Inline command logic  | Dedicated agent (raw mode)       |
| Safety          | Behavioral compliance | Physically impossible to violate |
| Session parsing | Kit CLI direct        | Agent delegation                 |
| Bypass-safe     | ❌ No                 | ✅ Yes                           |

## Technical Details

**Session File Location:**

Plans are stored in Claude session files:

```
~/.claude/projects/<session-id>/data/*.jsonl
```

Each JSONL line is a message. The agent searches for:

```json
{
  "type": "tool_use",
  "name": "ExitPlanMode",
  "input": {
    "plan": "[markdown plan content]"
  }
}
```

**Latest Plan Selection:**

If multiple ExitPlanMode entries exist, the agent selects the most recent by file timestamp and line position.

## Important Notes

- **Fast Path**: No interactive questions, no enrichment
- **Deterministic**: Session file parsing is repeatable
- **Raw Content**: Preserves plan exactly as found
- **Structural Safety**: Agent cannot edit files (tool restrictions)
- **Bypass-Safe**: Works correctly even with bypass permissions
- **Reuses Agent**: Same plan-extractor agent, just in raw mode
- **Command Comparison**:
  - `save-raw-plan`: Session files → Raw plan → GitHub issue (this command)
  - `save-plan`: Conversation → Enriched plan → GitHub issue (interactive)

## Development Notes

**For maintainers:**

This command demonstrates **mode-based agent reuse**:

- Same agent (plan-extractor)
- Different mode (raw vs enriched)
- Different behavior (file extraction vs conversation parsing)
- Same safety guarantees (tool restrictions)

**Benefits:**

- Single agent handles both workflows
- Consistent JSON output format
- Reusable orchestration pattern
- Structural safety in both modes

**Agent file:** `.claude/agents/erk/plan-extractor.md`
