packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/save-plan.md, before:

---
description: Extract plan from conversation, fully enhance it, and create GitHub issue directly
---

# /erk:save-plan

⚠️ **CRITICAL: This command creates a GitHub issue with the plan - it does NOT implement code!**

## Goal

**Extract an implementation plan from conversation, enhance it for autonomous execution, and create a GitHub issue directly.**

This command uses an **agent-based architecture** with structural enforcement (tool restrictions) to prevent accidental code implementation.

**What this command does:**

- ✅ Find plan in conversation
- ✅ Apply optional guidance to plan
- ✅ Interactively enhance plan for autonomous execution
- ✅ Extract semantic understanding and context
- ✅ Structure complex plans into phases (when beneficial)
- ✅ Create GitHub issue with enhanced plan

**What this command CANNOT do:**

- ❌ Edit files on current branch (structurally impossible - agent lacks tools)
- ❌ Implement code (agent has no Write/Edit capabilities)
- ❌ Make commits (agent restricted from git mutations)

**What happens AFTER:**

- ⏭️ Implement directly: `erk implement <issue>`

## Usage

```bash
/erk:save-plan [guidance]
```

**Examples:**

- `/erk:save-plan` - Create GitHub issue with enhanced plan
- `/erk:save-plan "Make error handling more robust and add retry logic"` - Apply guidance to plan
- `/erk:save-plan "Fix: Use LBYL instead of try/except throughout"` - Apply corrections to plan

## Prerequisites

- An implementation plan must exist in conversation
- Current working directory must be in a git repository
- GitHub CLI (gh) must be installed and authenticated
- Repository must have issues enabled
- (Optional) Guidance text for final corrections/additions to the plan

## Architecture

This command uses a **specialized agent** for plan extraction/enrichment instead of inline command logic:

```
/erk:save-plan (orchestrator)
  ↓
  ├─→ Validate prerequisites (git repo, gh auth)
  ├─→ Launch plan-extractor agent (Task tool)
  │     ↓
  │     Agent returns JSON: {plan_title, plan_content, enrichment: {...}}
  │     (Agent has NO Edit/Write tools - structurally safe)
  ├─→ Save plan to temp file
  ├─→ Call kit CLI: dot-agent run erk create-enriched-plan-from-context --plan-file
  │     ↓
  │     Kit CLI creates GitHub issue
  └─→ Display results (issue URL + copy-pastable commands)
```

**Key Innovation:** The agent has **tool restrictions** in YAML front matter:

```yaml
---
name: plan-extractor
tools: Read, Bash, AskUserQuestion
---
```

This makes it **structurally impossible** to accidentally edit files, even with bypass permissions enabled.

## What Happens

When you run this command, these steps occur:

1. **Verify Prerequisites** - Check git repo and GitHub CLI authentication
2. **Launch Agent** - Delegate to plan-extractor agent (read-only tools)
3. **Receive JSON** - Agent returns structured plan data
4. **Create Issue** - Use kit CLI to create GitHub issue
5. **Display Results** - Show issue URL and next-step commands

## Semantic Understanding & Context Preservation

**Why This Matters:** Planning agents often discover valuable insights that would be expensive for implementing agents to re-derive. Capturing this context saves time and prevents errors.

The plan-extractor agent captures **8 categories of context:**

1. **API/Tool Quirks** - Undocumented behaviors, timing issues
2. **Architectural Insights** - WHY decisions were made
3. **Domain Logic & Business Rules** - Non-obvious invariants
4. **Complex Reasoning** - Alternatives considered and rejected
5. **Known Pitfalls** - Anti-patterns that cause problems
6. **Raw Discoveries Log** - Everything learned during planning
7. **Planning Artifacts** - Code examined, commands run
8. **Implementation Risks** - Uncertainties, performance concerns

See agent documentation for full details: `.claude/agents/erk/plan-extractor.md`

## Success Criteria

This command succeeds when ALL of the following are true:

**Plan Extraction:**
✅ Implementation plan extracted from conversation context
✅ If guidance provided, it has been applied to the plan
✅ Semantic understanding extracted and integrated

**Issue Creation:**
✅ GitHub issue created with enhanced plan content
✅ Issue has `erk-plan` label applied
✅ Issue title matches plan title

**Output:**
✅ JSON output provided with issue URL and number
✅ Copy-pastable commands displayed (view + implement variants)
✅ All commands use actual issue number, not placeholders
✅ Next steps clearly communicated to user

---

## Command Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:save-plan` command. Follow these steps carefully:

### Step 1: Validate Prerequisites

Check that prerequisites are met:

```bash
# Verify we're in a git repository
git rev-parse --is-inside-work-tree

# Verify GitHub CLI is authenticated
gh auth status
```

**Error handling:**

If `git rev-parse` fails:

```
❌ Error: Not in a git repository

This command must be run from within a git repository.
```

If `gh auth status` fails:

```
❌ Error: GitHub CLI not authenticated

Run: gh auth login
```

### Step 2: Launch Plan-Extractor Agent

Use the Task tool to launch the specialized agent:

```
Launch agent: plan-extractor
Mode: enriched
Guidance: [user-provided guidance if any, otherwise null]
```

**Task tool invocation:**

```json
{
  "subagent_type": "plan-extractor",
  "description": "Extract and enrich plan",
  "prompt": "Extract the implementation plan from conversation context, apply guidance if provided, ask clarifying questions, extract semantic understanding, and return structured JSON.\n\nInput:\n- Mode: enriched\n- Guidance: [guidance text or 'none']\n\nExpected output: JSON with plan_title, plan_content, and enrichment metadata.",
  "model": "haiku"
}
```

**What the agent does:**

1. Finds plan in conversation
2. Applies guidance if provided (in-memory)
3. Asks clarifying questions via AskUserQuestion tool
4. Extracts semantic understanding (8 categories)
5. Returns JSON output

**Agent tool restrictions (enforced in YAML):**

- ✅ Read - Can read conversation and files
- ✅ Bash - Can run git/kit CLI (read-only)
- ✅ AskUserQuestion - Can clarify ambiguities
- ❌ Edit - NO access to file editing
- ❌ Write - NO access to file writing
- ❌ Task - NO access to subagents

**Error handling:**

If agent returns error JSON:

```
❌ Error: [agent error message]

[Display agent error details]
```

### Step 3: Parse Agent Response

The agent returns JSON in this format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "plan_title": "Add user authentication",
  "plan_content": "## Overview\n\n...",
  "enrichment": {
    "guidance_applied": true,
    "questions_asked": 2,
    "clarifications": ["..."],
    "context_extracted": true
  }
}
```

**Validate response:**

- Check `success` field is true
- Ensure `plan_title` and `plan_content` are present
- Verify `plan_content` is non-empty

**Error handling:**

If `success` is false or fields missing:

```
❌ Error: Agent returned invalid response

[Display agent response for debugging]
```

### Step 4: Save Plan to Temporary File

Write plan content to a temporary file for kit CLI:

```bash
# Create temp file
temp_plan=$(mktemp /tmp/erk-plan-XXXXXX.md)

# Write plan content
cat > "$temp_plan" <<'PLAN_EOF'
[plan_content from agent JSON]
PLAN_EOF
```

**Why temp file:** Kit CLI command expects `--plan-file` option for clean separation of concerns.

### Step 5: Create GitHub Issue via Kit CLI

Call the kit CLI command to create the issue:

```bash
# Call kit CLI with plan file
result=$(dot-agent run erk create-enriched-plan-from-context --plan-file "$temp_plan")

# Clean up temp file
rm "$temp_plan"

# Parse JSON result
echo "$result" | jq .
```

**Expected output:**

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "issue_number": 123,
  "issue_url": "https://github.com/owner/repo/issues/123"
}
```

**Error handling:**

If command fails:

```
❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

[Display kit CLI error output]
```

### Step 6: Display Success Output

Show the user the issue URL and copy-pastable commands:

```
✅ Plan saved to GitHub issue

**Issue:** [issue_url]

**Next steps:**

View the plan:
    gh issue view [issue_number]

Implement directly:
    erk implement [issue_number]

Implement with auto-confirmation (yolo mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --yolo

Implement and auto-submit PR (dangerous mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --dangerous
```

**Formatting requirements:**

- Use `✅` for success indicator
- Bold `**Issue:**` and `**Next steps:**`
- Show actual issue URL (clickable)
- Show actual issue number in commands (not `<issue-number>`)
- Each command should be on its own line with proper indentation
- Commands should be copy-pastable (no markdown formatting inside)

### Step 7: Enrichment Summary (Optional)

If the agent asked questions or applied guidance, show a summary:

```
**Enrichment applied:**

- Guidance: [guidance text]
- Questions asked: [count]
- Clarifications: [list]
- Context extracted: [yes/no]
```

## Error Scenarios

### No Plan Found

```
❌ Error: No plan found in conversation

Please present an implementation plan in the conversation, then run this command.

A plan typically includes:
- Overview or objective
- Implementation steps or phases
- Success criteria
```

### Guidance Without Plan

```
❌ Error: Guidance provided but no plan found

Guidance: "[guidance text]"

Please create a plan first, then apply guidance.
```

### GitHub CLI Not Authenticated

```
❌ Error: GitHub CLI not authenticated

To use this command, authenticate with GitHub:

    gh auth login

Then try again.
```

### Kit CLI Error

```
❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

[Full kit CLI error output]

Common causes:
- Repository has issues disabled
- Network connectivity issue
- GitHub API rate limit
```

## Architecture Benefits

| Aspect         | Previous Design             | Current Design                   |
| -------------- | --------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Enforcement    | Text warnings (7 instances) | Structural (tool restrictions)   |
| Implementation | Inline command logic        | Dedicated agent                  |
| Safety         | Behavioral compliance       | Physically impossible to violate |
| Code size      | 402 lines                   | ~120 lines (orchestrator)        |
| Bypass-safe    | ❌ No                       | ✅ Yes                           |

## Troubleshooting

### "Agent returned error"

**Cause:** Agent encountered issue during extraction/enrichment
**Solution:**

- Check agent error message for details
- Ensure plan is in conversation context
- Verify plan has clear structure

### "Invalid JSON from agent"

**Cause:** Agent output malformed or unexpected
**Solution:**

- Check agent output for debugging
- Retry command
- Report issue if persistent

### "Temp file error"

**Cause:** Cannot create temporary file (permissions, disk space)
**Solution:**

- Check `/tmp/` directory permissions
- Ensure disk space available
- Check `mktemp` command availability

## Development Notes

**For maintainers:**

This command demonstrates the **agent-based orchestration pattern**:

1. Command validates prerequisites
2. Command launches specialized agent with tool restrictions
3. Agent does the work (structurally safe)
4. Agent returns JSON
5. Command handles I/O and user feedback

**Benefits:**

- Separation of concerns (orchestration vs. logic)
- Structural safety (agent can't violate tool restrictions)
- Reusable agents (plan-extractor can be used elsewhere)
- Testable components (agent can be tested independently)
- Shorter commands (orchestration only)

**Agent file:** `.claude/agents/erk/plan-extractor.md`

Commit message:

Add execution summary display to save-plan and save-raw-plan commands
This change enhances the planning workflow by instructing agents to generate and display
a concise execution summary immediately after plan creation. The summary includes a
one-sentence overview of the plan's main objective and three key bullet points
highlighting the most important implementation steps or outcomes. This provides users
with quick context about what was accomplished before displaying the issue URL.

Modified files:
- save-plan.md: Added Substep 6a for execution summary generation
- save-raw-plan.md: Added Substep 7a for execution summary generation

Both commands follow the same summary format for consistency across the planning workflow.

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/erk/commands/erk/save-plan.md, after:

---
description: Extract plan from conversation, fully enhance it, and create GitHub issue directly
---

# /erk:save-plan

⚠️ **CRITICAL: This command creates a GitHub issue with the plan - it does NOT implement code!**

## Goal

**Extract an implementation plan from conversation, enhance it for autonomous execution, and create a GitHub issue directly.**

This command uses an **agent-based architecture** with structural enforcement (tool restrictions) to prevent accidental code implementation.

**What this command does:**

- ✅ Find plan in conversation
- ✅ Apply optional guidance to plan
- ✅ Interactively enhance plan for autonomous execution
- ✅ Extract semantic understanding and context
- ✅ Structure complex plans into phases (when beneficial)
- ✅ Create GitHub issue with enhanced plan

**What this command CANNOT do:**

- ❌ Edit files on current branch (structurally impossible - agent lacks tools)
- ❌ Implement code (agent has no Write/Edit capabilities)
- ❌ Make commits (agent restricted from git mutations)

**What happens AFTER:**

- ⏭️ Implement directly: `erk implement <issue>`

## Usage

```bash
/erk:save-plan [guidance]
```

**Examples:**

- `/erk:save-plan` - Create GitHub issue with enhanced plan
- `/erk:save-plan "Make error handling more robust and add retry logic"` - Apply guidance to plan
- `/erk:save-plan "Fix: Use LBYL instead of try/except throughout"` - Apply corrections to plan

## Prerequisites

- An implementation plan must exist in conversation
- Current working directory must be in a git repository
- GitHub CLI (gh) must be installed and authenticated
- Repository must have issues enabled
- (Optional) Guidance text for final corrections/additions to the plan

## Architecture

This command uses a **specialized agent** for plan extraction/enrichment instead of inline command logic:

```
/erk:save-plan (orchestrator)
  ↓
  ├─→ Validate prerequisites (git repo, gh auth)
  ├─→ Launch plan-extractor agent (Task tool)
  │     ↓
  │     Agent returns JSON: {plan_title, plan_content, enrichment: {...}}
  │     (Agent has NO Edit/Write tools - structurally safe)
  ├─→ Save plan to temp file
  ├─→ Call kit CLI: dot-agent run erk create-enriched-plan-from-context --plan-file
  │     ↓
  │     Kit CLI creates GitHub issue
  └─→ Display results (issue URL + copy-pastable commands)
```

**Key Innovation:** The agent has **tool restrictions** in YAML front matter:

```yaml
---
name: plan-extractor
tools: Read, Bash, AskUserQuestion
---
```

This makes it **structurally impossible** to accidentally edit files, even with bypass permissions enabled.

## What Happens

When you run this command, these steps occur:

1. **Verify Prerequisites** - Check git repo and GitHub CLI authentication
2. **Launch Agent** - Delegate to plan-extractor agent (read-only tools)
3. **Receive JSON** - Agent returns structured plan data
4. **Create Issue** - Use kit CLI to create GitHub issue
5. **Display Results** - Show issue URL and next-step commands

## Semantic Understanding & Context Preservation

**Why This Matters:** Planning agents often discover valuable insights that would be expensive for implementing agents to re-derive. Capturing this context saves time and prevents errors.

The plan-extractor agent captures **8 categories of context:**

1. **API/Tool Quirks** - Undocumented behaviors, timing issues
2. **Architectural Insights** - WHY decisions were made
3. **Domain Logic & Business Rules** - Non-obvious invariants
4. **Complex Reasoning** - Alternatives considered and rejected
5. **Known Pitfalls** - Anti-patterns that cause problems
6. **Raw Discoveries Log** - Everything learned during planning
7. **Planning Artifacts** - Code examined, commands run
8. **Implementation Risks** - Uncertainties, performance concerns

See agent documentation for full details: `.claude/agents/erk/plan-extractor.md`

## Success Criteria

This command succeeds when ALL of the following are true:

**Plan Extraction:**
✅ Implementation plan extracted from conversation context
✅ If guidance provided, it has been applied to the plan
✅ Semantic understanding extracted and integrated

**Issue Creation:**
✅ GitHub issue created with enhanced plan content
✅ Issue has `erk-plan` label applied
✅ Issue title matches plan title

**Output:**
✅ JSON output provided with issue URL and number
✅ Copy-pastable commands displayed (view + implement variants)
✅ All commands use actual issue number, not placeholders
✅ Next steps clearly communicated to user

---

## Command Instructions

You are executing the `/erk:save-plan` command. Follow these steps carefully:

### Step 1: Validate Prerequisites

Check that prerequisites are met:

```bash
# Verify we're in a git repository
git rev-parse --is-inside-work-tree

# Verify GitHub CLI is authenticated
gh auth status
```

**Error handling:**

If `git rev-parse` fails:

```
❌ Error: Not in a git repository

This command must be run from within a git repository.
```

If `gh auth status` fails:

```
❌ Error: GitHub CLI not authenticated

Run: gh auth login
```

### Step 2: Launch Plan-Extractor Agent

Use the Task tool to launch the specialized agent:

```
Launch agent: plan-extractor
Mode: enriched
Guidance: [user-provided guidance if any, otherwise null]
```

**Task tool invocation:**

```json
{
  "subagent_type": "plan-extractor",
  "description": "Extract and enrich plan",
  "prompt": "Extract the implementation plan from conversation context, apply guidance if provided, ask clarifying questions, extract semantic understanding, and return structured JSON.\n\nInput:\n- Mode: enriched\n- Guidance: [guidance text or 'none']\n\nExpected output: JSON with plan_title, plan_content, and enrichment metadata.",
  "model": "haiku"
}
```

**What the agent does:**

1. Finds plan in conversation
2. Applies guidance if provided (in-memory)
3. Asks clarifying questions via AskUserQuestion tool
4. Extracts semantic understanding (8 categories)
5. Returns JSON output

**Agent tool restrictions (enforced in YAML):**

- ✅ Read - Can read conversation and files
- ✅ Bash - Can run git/kit CLI (read-only)
- ✅ AskUserQuestion - Can clarify ambiguities
- ❌ Edit - NO access to file editing
- ❌ Write - NO access to file writing
- ❌ Task - NO access to subagents

**Error handling:**

If agent returns error JSON:

```
❌ Error: [agent error message]

[Display agent error details]
```

### Step 3: Parse Agent Response

The agent returns JSON in this format:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "plan_title": "Add user authentication",
  "plan_content": "## Overview\n\n...",
  "enrichment": {
    "guidance_applied": true,
    "questions_asked": 2,
    "clarifications": ["..."],
    "context_extracted": true
  }
}
```

**Validate response:**

- Check `success` field is true
- Ensure `plan_title` and `plan_content` are present
- Verify `plan_content` is non-empty

**Error handling:**

If `success` is false or fields missing:

```
❌ Error: Agent returned invalid response

[Display agent response for debugging]
```

### Step 4: Save Plan to Temporary File

Write plan content to a temporary file for kit CLI:

```bash
# Create temp file
temp_plan=$(mktemp /tmp/erk-plan-XXXXXX.md)

# Write plan content
cat > "$temp_plan" <<'PLAN_EOF'
[plan_content from agent JSON]
PLAN_EOF
```

**Why temp file:** Kit CLI command expects `--plan-file` option for clean separation of concerns.

### Step 5: Create GitHub Issue via Kit CLI

Call the kit CLI command to create the issue:

```bash
# Call kit CLI with plan file
result=$(dot-agent run erk create-enriched-plan-from-context --plan-file "$temp_plan")

# Clean up temp file
rm "$temp_plan"

# Parse JSON result
echo "$result" | jq .
```

**Expected output:**

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "issue_number": 123,
  "issue_url": "https://github.com/owner/repo/issues/123"
}
```

**Error handling:**

If command fails:

```
❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

[Display kit CLI error output]
```

### Step 6: Display Success Output

#### Substep 6a: Generate and Display Execution Summary

After receiving the successful response from the kit CLI, generate a concise summary of what was accomplished:

**Summary Generation Process:**

1. **Extract one-sentence overview** - Create a brief, high-level summary of the plan's main objective from the plan_content
2. **Extract three key bullet points** - Identify the three most important implementation steps or outcomes from the plan
3. **Format and display** - Present summary before the issue URL using this format:

```
**Execution Summary:**

[One sentence overview of what was accomplished]

- [Key bullet point 1]
- [Key bullet point 2]
- [Key bullet point 3]
```

**Implementation note:** Extract summary from the plan_content received from the agent. Look for major sections, objectives, or implementation phases to create meaningful bullet points.

#### Substep 6b: Display Issue URL and Next Steps

Show the user the issue URL and copy-pastable commands:

```
✅ Plan saved to GitHub issue

**Issue:** [issue_url]

**Next steps:**

View the plan:
    gh issue view [issue_number]

Implement directly:
    erk implement [issue_number]

Implement with auto-confirmation (yolo mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --yolo

Implement and auto-submit PR (dangerous mode):
    erk implement [issue_number] --dangerous
```

**Formatting requirements:**

- Use `✅` for success indicator
- Bold `**Issue:**` and `**Next steps:**`
- Show actual issue URL (clickable)
- Show actual issue number in commands (not `<issue-number>`)
- Each command should be on its own line with proper indentation
- Commands should be copy-pastable (no markdown formatting inside)

### Step 7: Enrichment Summary (Optional)

If the agent asked questions or applied guidance, show a summary:

```
**Enrichment applied:**

- Guidance: [guidance text]
- Questions asked: [count]
- Clarifications: [list]
- Context extracted: [yes/no]
```

## Error Scenarios

### No Plan Found

```
❌ Error: No plan found in conversation

Please present an implementation plan in the conversation, then run this command.

A plan typically includes:
- Overview or objective
- Implementation steps or phases
- Success criteria
```

### Guidance Without Plan

```
❌ Error: Guidance provided but no plan found

Guidance: "[guidance text]"

Please create a plan first, then apply guidance.
```

### GitHub CLI Not Authenticated

```
❌ Error: GitHub CLI not authenticated

To use this command, authenticate with GitHub:

    gh auth login

Then try again.
```

### Kit CLI Error

```
❌ Error: Failed to create GitHub issue

[Full kit CLI error output]

Common causes:
- Repository has issues disabled
- Network connectivity issue
- GitHub API rate limit
```

## Architecture Benefits

| Aspect         | Previous Design             | Current Design                   |
| -------------- | --------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Enforcement    | Text warnings (7 instances) | Structural (tool restrictions)   |
| Implementation | Inline command logic        | Dedicated agent                  |
| Safety         | Behavioral compliance       | Physically impossible to violate |
| Code size      | 402 lines                   | ~120 lines (orchestrator)        |
| Bypass-safe    | ❌ No                       | ✅ Yes                           |

## Troubleshooting

### "Agent returned error"

**Cause:** Agent encountered issue during extraction/enrichment
**Solution:**

- Check agent error message for details
- Ensure plan is in conversation context
- Verify plan has clear structure

### "Invalid JSON from agent"

**Cause:** Agent output malformed or unexpected
**Solution:**

- Check agent output for debugging
- Retry command
- Report issue if persistent

### "Temp file error"

**Cause:** Cannot create temporary file (permissions, disk space)
**Solution:**

- Check `/tmp/` directory permissions
- Ensure disk space available
- Check `mktemp` command availability

## Development Notes

**For maintainers:**

This command demonstrates the **agent-based orchestration pattern**:

1. Command validates prerequisites
2. Command launches specialized agent with tool restrictions
3. Agent does the work (structurally safe)
4. Agent returns JSON
5. Command handles I/O and user feedback

**Benefits:**

- Separation of concerns (orchestration vs. logic)
- Structural safety (agent can't violate tool restrictions)
- Reusable agents (plan-extractor can be used elsewhere)
- Testable components (agent can be tested independently)
- Shorter commands (orchestration only)

**Agent file:** `.claude/agents/erk/plan-extractor.md`
