packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/gt/commands/gt/pr-submit.md, before:

---
description: Create git commit and submit current branch with Graphite (squashes commits and rebases stack)
argument-hint: <description>
---

# Submit PR

Automatically create a git commit with a helpful summary message and submit the current branch as a pull request.

**Note:** This command squashes commits and rebases the stack. If you prefer a simpler workflow that preserves your commit history, use `/git:pr-push` instead.

## Usage

```bash
# Invoke the command (description argument is optional but recommended)
/gt:pr-submit "Add user authentication feature"

# Without argument (will analyze changes automatically)
/gt:pr-submit
```

## What This Command Does

Executes the complete submit-branch workflow in 3 phases:

1. **Preflight** (Python CLI): Auth checks, squash commits, submit to Graphite, get PR diff
2. **AI Summarization** (Task tool): Generate PR title and body using commit-message-generator subagent
3. **Finalize** (Python CLI): Update PR metadata with AI-generated content

## Implementation

### Step 1: Run Preflight Phase

Execute the preflight command to do all deterministic work.

**Session ID extraction**: Look for the `SESSION_CONTEXT` reminder in your context (injected by hooks). It contains `session_id=<uuid>`. Extract this value and pass it to preflight.

```bash
# Extract session_id from SESSION_CONTEXT reminder and pass to preflight:
dot-agent run gt pr-submit preflight --session-id "<session-id>" 2>&1
```

The `--session-id` is **required**. The diff file is written to `.tmp/<session-id>/` in the repo root, which is accessible to subagents without permission prompts.

**IMPORTANT**: The `2>&1` redirection combines stderr and stdout so progress messages are visible. Display the full command output to the user first (this shows real-time progress), then extract and parse the JSON object from the end of the output.

This returns JSON with:

- `success`: boolean
- `pr_number`: int
- `pr_url`: string
- `graphite_url`: string
- `branch_name`: string
- `diff_file`: path to temp diff file
- `repo_root`: repository root path
- `current_branch`: current branch name
- `parent_branch`: parent branch name
- `issue_number`: int or null
- `message`: status message

If `success` is `false`, display the error and stop.

### Step 2: Generate PR Description via AI

Use the Task tool to delegate to the commit-message-generator agent:

```
Task(
    subagent_type="commit-message-generator",
    description="Generate commit message from diff",
    prompt="Analyze the git diff and generate a commit message.

Diff file: {diff_file}
Repository root: {repo_root}
Current branch: {current_branch}
Parent branch: {parent_branch}

Use the Read tool to load the diff file."
)
```

Parse the agent output:

- First line = PR title
- Remaining lines = PR body
- Look for marker: `<!-- erk-generated commit message -->`
- Strip the marker before using the content

### Step 3: Run Finalize Phase

Execute the finalize command to update PR metadata:

```bash
dot-agent run gt pr-submit finalize \
    --pr-number {pr_number} \
    --pr-title "{pr_title}" \
    --pr-body "{pr_body}" \
    --diff-file "{diff_file}" 2>&1
```

### Step 4: Report Results

Display:

- PR URL: `{pr_url}`
- Graphite URL: `{graphite_url}`
- Success message

## Error Handling

### Preflight Errors - CRITICAL

**When preflight returns `success: false`, IMMEDIATELY ABORT the entire command.** Do NOT attempt to auto-resolve any preflight errors. Display the error clearly and let the user fix it manually.

Display format for ALL preflight failures:

```
❌ PR submission failed: {error_type}

{message}

Error details:
{details as formatted JSON or bullet points}
```

**Do NOT:**

- Try to run `gt sync`, `gt restack`, or any recovery commands
- Attempt to fix merge conflicts automatically
- Continue to the AI summarization step
- Suggest running additional commands in the same session

**DO:**

- Display the error message from the JSON response
- Include the `error_type` and `details` fields
- Stop execution immediately
- Let the user resolve the issue and re-run `/gt:pr-submit`

#### Common Error Types

| Error Type                             | Cause                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `submit_merged_parent`                 | Parent branch merged but not in local trunk. User needs to run `gt sync --force`, `gt track --parent master`, then `gt restack`. |
| `gt_not_authenticated`                 | Not logged into Graphite CLI                                                                                                     |
| `gh_not_authenticated`                 | Not logged into GitHub CLI                                                                                                       |
| `no_branch` / `no_parent`              | Not on a valid Graphite branch                                                                                                   |
| `no_commits`                           | No commits to submit                                                                                                             |
| `squash_conflict` / `pr_has_conflicts` | Merge conflicts need manual resolution                                                                                           |
| `submit_failed` / `submit_timeout`     | Graphite submission failed                                                                                                       |

### AI Errors

- Invalid output (missing marker): Fall back to branch name as title
- Task tool failure: Report error and stop

### Finalize Errors

- `pr_update_failed`: Non-fatal, PR was already submitted successfully

Commit message:

Add --pr-body-file option to gt pr-submit finalize command (#1596)
Adds support for passing PR body content via a file path instead of inline text, avoiding shell escaping issues with multi-line content and special characters. The new `--pr-body-file` option is mutually exclusive with `--pr-body`.

## Files Changed

### Added (0 files)

### Modified (2 files)
- `packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/gt/commands/gt/pr-submit.md` - Documentation with usage examples and rationale for file-based approach
- `packages/erk-shared/src/erk_shared/integrations/gt/kit_cli_commands/gt/submit_branch.py` - Implementation of file reading and validation

## Key Changes

- New `--pr-body-file` option for passing PR body via file path
- Mutual exclusivity validation between `--pr-body` and `--pr-body-file`
- File existence check and UTF-8 text reading
- Updated documentation with recommended best practices
- Error handling for validation failures with clear user messages
---


To checkout this PR in a fresh worktree and environment locally, run:

```
erk pr checkout 1596
```


Closes #1595

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/gt/commands/gt/pr-submit.md, after:

---
description: Create git commit and submit current branch with Graphite (squashes commits and rebases stack)
argument-hint: <description>
---

# Submit PR

Automatically create a git commit with a helpful summary message and submit the current branch as a pull request.

**Note:** This command squashes commits and rebases the stack. If you prefer a simpler workflow that preserves your commit history, use `/git:pr-push` instead.

## Usage

```bash
# Invoke the command (description argument is optional but recommended)
/gt:pr-submit "Add user authentication feature"

# Without argument (will analyze changes automatically)
/gt:pr-submit
```

## What This Command Does

Executes the complete submit-branch workflow in 3 phases:

1. **Preflight** (Python CLI): Auth checks, squash commits, submit to Graphite, get PR diff
2. **AI Summarization** (Task tool): Generate PR title and body using commit-message-generator subagent
3. **Finalize** (Python CLI): Update PR metadata with AI-generated content

## Implementation

### Step 1: Run Preflight Phase

Execute the preflight command to do all deterministic work.

**Session ID extraction**: Look for the `SESSION_CONTEXT` reminder in your context (injected by hooks). It contains `session_id=<uuid>`. Extract this value and pass it to preflight.

```bash
# Extract session_id from SESSION_CONTEXT reminder and pass to preflight:
dot-agent run gt pr-submit preflight --session-id "<session-id>" 2>&1
```

The `--session-id` is **required**. The diff file is written to `.tmp/<session-id>/` in the repo root, which is accessible to subagents without permission prompts.

**IMPORTANT**: The `2>&1` redirection combines stderr and stdout so progress messages are visible. Display the full command output to the user first (this shows real-time progress), then extract and parse the JSON object from the end of the output.

This returns JSON with:

- `success`: boolean
- `pr_number`: int
- `pr_url`: string
- `graphite_url`: string
- `branch_name`: string
- `diff_file`: path to temp diff file
- `repo_root`: repository root path
- `current_branch`: current branch name
- `parent_branch`: parent branch name
- `issue_number`: int or null
- `message`: status message

If `success` is `false`, display the error and stop.

### Step 2: Generate PR Description via AI

Use the Task tool to delegate to the commit-message-generator agent:

```
Task(
    subagent_type="commit-message-generator",
    description="Generate commit message from diff",
    prompt="Analyze the git diff and generate a commit message.

Diff file: {diff_file}
Repository root: {repo_root}
Current branch: {current_branch}
Parent branch: {parent_branch}

Use the Read tool to load the diff file."
)
```

Parse the agent output:

- First line = PR title
- Remaining lines = PR body
- Look for marker: `<!-- erk-generated commit message -->`
- Strip the marker before using the content

### Step 3: Run Finalize Phase

Execute the finalize command to update PR metadata.

**IMPORTANT**: Use `--pr-body-file` instead of `--pr-body` to avoid shell escaping issues with multi-line content and special characters.

1. Write the PR body to a temp file (e.g., `/tmp/pr-body-{uuid}.txt`)
2. Pass the file path to finalize

```bash
# Write PR body to temp file first (using Write tool or similar)
# Then run finalize with the file path:
dot-agent run gt pr-submit finalize \
    --pr-number {pr_number} \
    --pr-title "{pr_title}" \
    --pr-body-file "/tmp/pr-body-{uuid}.txt" \
    --diff-file "{diff_file}" 2>&1
```

**Alternative** (for simple, single-line PR bodies without special characters):

```bash
dot-agent run gt pr-submit finalize \
    --pr-number {pr_number} \
    --pr-title "{pr_title}" \
    --pr-body "{pr_body}" \
    --diff-file "{diff_file}" 2>&1
```

### Step 4: Report Results

Display:

- PR URL: `{pr_url}`
- Graphite URL: `{graphite_url}`
- Success message

## Error Handling

### Preflight Errors - CRITICAL

**When preflight returns `success: false`, IMMEDIATELY ABORT the entire command.** Do NOT attempt to auto-resolve any preflight errors. Display the error clearly and let the user fix it manually.

Display format for ALL preflight failures:

```
❌ PR submission failed: {error_type}

{message}

Error details:
{details as formatted JSON or bullet points}
```

**Do NOT:**

- Try to run `gt sync`, `gt restack`, or any recovery commands
- Attempt to fix merge conflicts automatically
- Continue to the AI summarization step
- Suggest running additional commands in the same session

**DO:**

- Display the error message from the JSON response
- Include the `error_type` and `details` fields
- Stop execution immediately
- Let the user resolve the issue and re-run `/gt:pr-submit`

#### Common Error Types

| Error Type                             | Cause                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `submit_merged_parent`                 | Parent branch merged but not in local trunk. User needs to run `gt sync --force`, `gt track --parent master`, then `gt restack`. |
| `gt_not_authenticated`                 | Not logged into Graphite CLI                                                                                                     |
| `gh_not_authenticated`                 | Not logged into GitHub CLI                                                                                                       |
| `no_branch` / `no_parent`              | Not on a valid Graphite branch                                                                                                   |
| `no_commits`                           | No commits to submit                                                                                                             |
| `squash_conflict` / `pr_has_conflicts` | Merge conflicts need manual resolution                                                                                           |
| `submit_failed` / `submit_timeout`     | Graphite submission failed                                                                                                       |

### AI Errors

- Invalid output (missing marker): Fall back to branch name as title
- Task tool failure: Report error and stop

### Finalize Errors

- `pr_update_failed`: Non-fatal, PR was already submitted successfully
