packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/dignified-python/skills/dignified-python-311/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: dignified-python-311
description: This skill should be used when editing Python code in the erk codebase. Use when writing, reviewing, or refactoring Python to ensure adherence to LBYL exception handling patterns, modern type syntax (list[str], str | None), pathlib operations, ABC-based interfaces, absolute imports, and explicit error boundaries at CLI level. Also provides production-tested code smell patterns from Dagster Labs for API design, parameter complexity, and code organization. Essential for maintaining erk's dignified Python standards.
---

# Dignified Python - Python 3.11 Coding Standards

## Core Knowledge (ALWAYS Loaded)

@.claude/docs/dignified-python/core-essentials.md
@.claude/docs/dignified-python/routing-patterns.md

## Version-Specific Checklist

@.claude/docs/dignified-python/version-specific/311/checklist.md

## Conditional Loading (Load Based on Task Patterns)

Use the routing index in @routing-patterns.md to determine which additional files to load:

- **Dictionary/key operations** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/exception-handling.md
- **File system operations** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/path-operations.md
- **Properties/magic methods** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/performance-patterns.md
- **Import organization** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/imports.md
- **Dependency injection** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/dependency-injection.md
- **CLI development** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/cli-patterns.md
- **Subprocess operations** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/subprocess.md
- **Type annotations** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/version-specific/311/type-annotations.md
- **Code smells/refactoring** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/code-smells-dagster.md

## Comprehensive Reference (If Needed)

If unsure which specific file to load, or need full overview:
@.claude/docs/dignified-python/core-standards-universal.md

## How to Use This Skill

1. **Core essentials** are loaded automatically (LBYL, pathlib, ABC, imports)
2. **Scan your task** for patterns (see routing-patterns.md)
3. **Load relevant files** based on detected patterns
4. **Each file is self-contained** with complete guidance for its domain

**Token efficiency:** Loads ~740 tokens average (70% reduction from previous approach)

Commit message:

Optimize dignified-python skill by moving code-review documentation to separate directory (#841)
This change reorganizes the dignified-python skill to reduce auto-loaded token overhead. Three code-review-focused documentation files (code-smells-dagster.md, performance-patterns.md, patterns-reference-universal.md) are moved from .claude/docs/dignified-python/ to a new .claude/docs/code-review/ directory, reducing auto-loaded tokens by approximately 32k tokens (~37% reduction).

## Files Changed

### Moved (3 files)
- code-smells-dagster.md -> .claude/docs/code-review/
- performance-patterns.md -> .claude/docs/code-review/
- patterns-reference-universal.md -> .claude/docs/code-review/

### Added (1 file)
- .claude/docs/code-review/README.md - Navigation guide for code review resources

### Modified (8 files)
- core-essentials.md - Remove auto-load reference to performance-patterns.md
- core-standards-universal.md - Update to manual reference
- routing-patterns.md - Convert code smell and performance references to manual
- All version-specific pattern-tables (310-313) - Update routing to manual references
- All skill SKILL.md files (310-313) - Remove auto-load references, add code-review note
- test_dignified_python_sync.py - Update test to reflect moved files

## Key Changes

- Separates code-review concerns into dedicated directory for manual loading only
- Converts code smell pattern references from auto-load to on-demand
- Converts performance pattern references from auto-load to on-demand
- Updates all routing tables and pattern references consistently
- Creates README.md guide for accessing moved resources
- Preserves full content with new convenient location

## Token Impact

Reduces auto-loaded tokens by ~32k (from ~86k to ~54k), representing a 37% reduction in core skill overhead while maintaining complete accessibility through manual reference.

packages/dot-agent-kit/src/dot_agent_kit/data/kits/dignified-python/skills/dignified-python-311/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: dignified-python-311
description: This skill should be used when editing Python code in the erk codebase. Use when writing, reviewing, or refactoring Python to ensure adherence to LBYL exception handling patterns, modern type syntax (list[str], str | None), pathlib operations, ABC-based interfaces, absolute imports, and explicit error boundaries at CLI level. Also provides production-tested code smell patterns from Dagster Labs for API design, parameter complexity, and code organization. Essential for maintaining erk's dignified Python standards.
---

# Dignified Python - Python 3.11 Coding Standards

## Core Knowledge (ALWAYS Loaded)

@.claude/docs/dignified-python/core-essentials.md
@.claude/docs/dignified-python/routing-patterns.md

## Version-Specific Checklist

@.claude/docs/dignified-python/version-specific/311/checklist.md

## Conditional Loading (Load Based on Task Patterns)

Use the routing index in @routing-patterns.md to determine which additional files to load:

- **Dictionary/key operations** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/exception-handling.md
- **File system operations** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/path-operations.md
- **Import organization** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/imports.md
- **Dependency injection** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/dependency-injection.md
- **CLI development** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/cli-patterns.md
- **Subprocess operations** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/subprocess.md
- **Type annotations** → @.claude/docs/dignified-python/version-specific/311/type-annotations.md

## Comprehensive Reference (If Needed)

If unsure which specific file to load, or need full overview:
.claude/docs/dignified-python/core-standards-universal.md

**For code reviews:** See `.claude/docs/code-review/` for code smell patterns and refactoring guidance (not auto-loaded).

## How to Use This Skill

1. **Core essentials** are loaded automatically (LBYL, pathlib, ABC, imports)
2. **Scan your task** for patterns (see routing-patterns.md)
3. **Load relevant files** based on detected patterns
4. **Each file is self-contained** with complete guidance for its domain

**Token efficiency:** Loads ~740 tokens average (70% reduction from previous approach)
